Consultation Paper 
CP24/24** 
The MiFID Organisational Regulation 
November 2024 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How to 
respond 
We are asking for comments 
on this Consultation Paper 
(CP) by 28 February 2025. 
This CP also contains a 
discussion in Chapter 4. We 
are asking for comments 
back on discussion Chapter 4 
by 28 March 2025. 
You can send them to 
us using the form on our 
website. 
Or in writing to: 
Consumer Investments 
Advice Policy 
Financial Conduct 
Authority 
12 Endeavour Square 
London E20 1JN 
Or by email to: 
cp24-24@fca.org.uk 
Sign up for our news 
and publications alerts 
See all our latest press 
releases, consultations and 
speeches. 
Disclaimer 
When we make rules, we are required to publish: 
• a list of the names of respondents who made 
representations where those respondents consented to 
the publication of their names, 
• an account of the representations we receive, and 
• an account of how we have responded to the 
representations. 
In your response, please indicate: 
• if you consent to the publication of your name. If you 
are replying from an organisation, we will assume that 
the respondent is the organisation and will publish that 
name, unless you indicate that you are responding in an 
individual capacity (in which case, we will publish your 
name), 
• if you wish your response to be treated as confidential. 
We will have regard to this indication, but may not be 
able to maintain confidentiality where we are subject 
to a legal duty to publish or disclose the information in 
question. 
We may be required to publish or disclose information, 
including confidential information, such as your name 
and the contents of your response if required to do so 
by law, for example under the Freedom of Information 
Act 2000, or in the discharge of our functions. Please 
note that we will not regard a standard confidentiality 
statement in an email message as a request for non­
disclosure. 
Irrespective of whether you indicate that your response 
should be treated as confidential, we are obliged to 
publish an account of all the representations we receive 
when we make the rules. 
Further information on about the FCA’s use of personal 
data can be found on the FCA website at: www.fca.org. 
uk/privacy. 



3 
 
                                       
 
                                 
 
             
 
 
                                         
 
                               
 
                                 
 
                              
 
                           
 
                         
 
Contents 
Chapter 1 
Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Page 4 
Chapter 2 
The wider context . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Page 7 
Chapter 3 
Restating the MiFID Org Regulation in our rules . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Page 12 
Chapter 4 
Future amendments to EU Derived Organisational and Conduct 
rules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Page 24 
Annex 1 
Questions in this paper . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Page 41 
Annex 2 
Cost benefit analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Page 45 
Annex 3 
Compatibility statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Page 46 
Annex 4 
Derivation and Changes Table . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Page 51 
Annex 5 
Abbreviations in this document . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Page 103 
Appendix 1 Draft Handbook text 



4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 1 
Summary 
Why we are consulting 
1.1 
We are consulting on proposals to transfer the firm-facing requirements of the MiFID 
Org Reg (Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/565) into FCA handbook rules. 
We want to provide continuity to firms and therefore the overall approach we are 
proposing in this consultation is to retain the current substance of the requirements. 
1.2 
This CP follows Treasury’s policy paper on its next steps for reforming the UK’s MiFID 
framework, published as part of announcements made around the Mansion House 
speech. 
What we are consulting on 
1.3 
The MiFID Org Reg contains firm-facing conduct rules and systems and controls rules 
to ensure market integrity and investor protection. The UK version of the MiFID Org Reg 
applies directly to UK MiFID investment firms. 
1.4 
In 2018, when implementing MiFID II, we replicated parts of the MiFID Org Reg into the 
FCA Handbook for certain sourcebooks so that firms could see all the relevant MiFID 
requirements relating to a particular topic in one place. 
1.5 
We also extended some of the MiFID requirements to firms conducting non-MiFID 
business. We extended them to ‘optional exemption firms’ (Article 3 firms) so they are 
subject to very similar conduct and system requirements, and we also extended some 
limited provisions to other non-MiFID firms. 
1.6 
This paper sets out our proposals for replacing the firm-facing requirements in the 
MiFID Org Reg with Handbook rules, when the Treasury commences the repeal of the 
MiFID Org Reg. Provisions we are not replacing in regulatory rules will either be restated 
or repealed by Treasury, to coincide with our Handbook rules coming into force. The 
Treasury will publish a draft Statutory Instrument to propose these changes. 
1.7 
In this consultation we propose to retain the current substance of the requirements, 
giving firms continuity. 
1.8 
However, we are interested in views about reform, either now or in the future, to make 
the rules better suited to the range of UK authorised firms and clients they provide 
services to. This includes in circumstances where the Consumer Duty does not apply. 
So Chapter 4 is a Discussion Chapter that discusses how we could rationalise or improve 
MiFID II derived conduct and organisational rules, including for Article 3 firms. We also 
discuss whether and how the client categorisation rules could work more effectively. 



5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.9 
The Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) will consult separately on replacing relevant 
firm-facing provisions in the MiFID Org Reg in PRA rules. We will liaise closely with them 
on this. 
1.10 
We propose some consequential amendments and minor changes to reflect our 
Handbook drafting style, as well as to simplify the requirements and provide greater 
clarity. 
Who this applies to 
1.11 
The proposals in this CP affect a wide range of firms that the FCA authorise, regulate 
and recognise, as well as certain persons not requiring authorisation but who are subject 
to obligations under MiFID II, particularly. Some firms are also authorised and regulated 
by the PRA: 
• 
MiFID investment firms including credit institutions and collective portfolio 
management investment firms 
• 
MiFID optional exemption ‘Article 3’ firms 
• 
Third country firms 
• 
Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities (UCITS) 
managers 
• 
Residual Collective Investment Scheme (CIS) operators and small authorised UK 
Alternative Investment Fund Managers (AIFMs) 
• 
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) firms 
• 
Recognised investment exchanges (RIEs) 
1.12 
In Chapter 4, we are seeking views on how we can simplify and rationalise the 
requirements in the future. As well as the stakeholders listed above, we are also 
interested in hearing from groups that represent the interests of consumer groups, 
to the extent that they have not already provided feedback on these topics to the 
Consumer Duty Call for Input. 
Outcomes we are seeking 
1.13 
We want to maintain the current requirements for firms while we restate these 
regulatory requirements from legislation into our rules, making them consistent with our 
Handbook style. Our aim is to provide continuity and clarity, simplifying requirements 
where possible, without changing their scope or application. 
Measuring success 
1.14 
We will measure success in the short term by a lack of market disruption and limited 
burden on firms from implementing our final rules. 



6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.15 
The FCA’s Rule Review Framework states that, while we will generally monitor key 
metrics of new rules, we may decide not to monitor such metrics where the new rule 
relates to a minor policy or rule change with minimal impact. Because the rules being 
proposed here are expected to have a minimal impact and not change the regulatory 
requirements already in place, we don’t propose to put metrics in place, but we will 
monitor any feedback or comments we receive once the rules are in place. 
Next steps 
1.16 
We seek feedback on our proposals on the consultation questions set out in Chapter 
3 by 28 February 2025 and by 28 March 2025 for the discussion questions raised in 
Chapter 4. Please respond by completing the form on our website or by sending a 
response to cp24-24@fca.org.uk. We will consider the feedback we receive and plan 
to publish a policy statement subject to finalising our rules. This will be in line with the 
Government’s timetable to repeal the legislation. 



7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 2 
The wider context 
What we are aiming to achieve 
2.1 
The MiFID Org Reg provides detailed requirements for firms and contains key conduct 
and systems and controls obligations for investment firms, (eg, retail platforms, 
portfolio managers, wholesale brokers). The regulation is broad in scope, covering 
various requirements including: client categorisation, disclosure, suitability, reporting to 
clients, best execution, inducements, research, conflicts of interest, business continuity, 
outsourcing, control procedures and security mechanisms, risk, compliance and internal 
audit functions, remuneration policies and telephone taping. It also applies to a broad 
range of firms. 
2.2 
We intend to restate the existing firm-facing requirements from the MiFID Org Reg in 
our Handbook as rules and guidance with no or minimum changes. We are not proposing 
any new requirements on firms as part of these changes, nor do we propose removing 
any existing requirements in this CP. Provisions we are not replacing in regulatory rules 
will either be restated or repealed by Treasury, when our Handbook rules are ready to 
come into force. Treasury will publish a draft Statutory Instrument to propose these 
changes. 
2.3 
Restating the MiFID Org Reg requirements into the FCA Handbook will enable us to 
refine our approach across investment firms over the longer-term. 
2.4 
In line with the intent stated in our Call for Input (CFI) on a Review of FCA requirements 
following the introduction of the Consumer Duty, we anticipate further harmonisation 
and rationalisation of our requirements (including those relating to investment business) 
over time, delivering a more agile and coherent framework. We will seek to do this in a 
way that is tailored to, and facilitates participation in, UK markets. This could include for 
example: 
• 
streamlining the requirements that apply to firms conducting similar activities 
• 
adapting rules to new regimes or risks 
• 
simplifying and removing the duplication of rules due to multiple EU directives 
being implemented, particularly for the core conduct rules, systems and controls 
requirements, conflicts of interest management and outsourcing. 
2.5 
We seek views on future changes in Chapter 4. 
2.6 
Chapter 4 also outlines current implications of a firm being Article 3 exempt. While we 
are not consulting on changes to the regime for Article 3 firms, we seek early feedback 
on how we might improve the regulatory framework for these firms. 



8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consultation with Panels 
2.7 
Section 1RB FSMA requires the FCA to set out information about any engagement with 
the statutory panels of the FCA, the PRA or the Payment Services Regulator (PSR). We 
have provided the Practitioner Panel with an overview of our proposals. 
2.8 
We have discussed our proposals to restate the firm-facing MiFID Org Reg provisions 
into our rules with the PRA, and the Financial Ombudsman Service (Financial 
Ombudsman). We will continue to liaise with them as we finalise the policy position
 and rules. 
Cost Benefit Analysis 
2.9 
We have not published a Cost Benefit Analysis (CBA) for the proposed changes. Our 
objective is to maintain existing regulatory standards rather than introduce new 
requirements. Under section 138L(3) of FSMA we are not required to publish a CBA if, in 
making the appropriate comparison, we consider either there will be no increase in costs 
or the increase in costs will be of minimal significance. Annex 2 provides further details. 
Derivation and Changes Table 
2.10 
The Derivation and Changes Table in Annex 4 sets out detail on the restatement 
of individual provisions of the MiFID Org Reg into our Handbook. The Table briefly 
describes each provision, what we propose for each provision and where the relevant 
requirement may be found in the draft rules. 
How it links to our objectives 
Our Strategic aims 
2.11 
This publication supports our commitment to prepare financial services for the future 
as set out in Our Strategy 2022 to 2025. This work will allow us to tailor our rules to 
better suit UK markets, while maintaining market integrity, consumer protection and 
enhancing market confidence. This aligns with the aims set out in Preparing for the 
future of Consumer Investments by ensuring a market where consumers can invest with 
confidence, understand the risks they are taking and the regulatory protections 
they have. 
Consumer protection 
2.12 
Our proposals will ensure that consumers continue to benefit from the same levels of 
protection that currently apply to the provision of investment services. 



9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary International Competitiveness and Growth Objective 
2.13 
We consider these proposals are proportionate and compatible with the FCA’s 
secondary international competitiveness and growth (SICGO) objective, as they simplify 
and clarify existing obligations. 
2.14 
Once the firm-facing requirements are restated into our Handbook, we will consider 
making appropriate changes to our rules through our usual rule making process. In doing 
so we will act to advance our primary objectives and the SICGO. 
2.15 
Many of our firms operate globally and, in future work, we will take into account the need 
for international interoperability. This means considering how our rules align with global 
standards to ensure consistency where appropriate and minimise the regulatory burden 
for firms that operate across multiple jurisdictions. 
Other relevant initiatives 
2.16 
Work on the MiFID Org Reg takes place at the same time as a number of other reforms 
relevant to investment firms. This section highlights relevant initiatives that are likely 
to interact with the revocation of the MiFID Org Reg. We will work closely with relevant 
stakeholders to ensure a coherent approach. 
Review of FCA requirements following the introduction of the Consumer
Duty 
2.17 
In July 2024, the FCA launched a CFI on its review of FCA requirements under the 
Consumer Duty. Through the CFI we sought views on whether, where and how we 
can refine our retail conduct rules by relying on the Consumer Duty, while ensuring 
continued support and consumer protection. We particularly want to address potential 
areas of complexity, duplication, or over-prescription, which create regulatory costs with 
limited or no consumer benefit. We also want to ensure our rules are flexible to allow for 
future innovations. Although the CFI is primarily concerned with retail conduct rules and 
guidance, views were also invited on the FCA’s wider rules and guidance. We will bring 
the feedback and insight we get from the CFI together with the insight we get from this 
consultation to identify and then prioritise areas of the MiFID derived rules that could 
be further simplified while continuing to secure an appropriate degree of protection for 
consumers. 
The Advice Guidance Boundary Review (AGBR) 
2.18 
In December 2022, the FCA and the Government announced a joint review to examine 
the regulatory boundary between financial advice and other forms of support. The 
review is considering how the regulatory framework might better facilitate industry 
development and provision of better support for consumers when making financial 
decisions. This is known as the Advice Guidance Boundary Review. In December 2023 
we published, with Treasury, Discussion Paper DP23/5 setting out early-stage proposals 
for potential solutions to improve customer outcomes. Following analysis of feedback, 
we have announced, as part of the Chancellor’s Mansion House speech, our next steps 
in advancing this work. The MiFID Org Reg sets out key requirements relating to the 
provision of investment advice and consideration of these requirements will be relevant 



10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
should AGBR lead to changes to the way we define existing forms of guidance 
and advice. 
Disclosure Framework– Consumer Composite Investments (CCI) 
2.19 
The FCA is consulting on a new disclosure framework for certain retail investment 
products to replace PRIIPS. We want retail investors to get the information they need 
to make informed, effective decisions to pursue their financial goals. Articles 50 and 51 
of the MiFID Org Reg also relate to disclosure to investors of information about costs 
and charges. We intend to propose changes to aspects of cost disclosure requirements 
as part of our consultation on the replacement disclosure regime. Our proposals in this 
consultation paper do not therefore include proposals relating to the requirements 
in these Articles, save to preserve them pending completion of our work on the 
replacement retail disclosure regime. 
Revising the definition of Systematic Internalisers (SIs) 
2.20 
In CP23/32, we consulted on our intention to shift from a quantitative to a qualitative 
regime for determining which firms are Systematic Internalisers (SIs). Completing this 
shift requires changes to our Handbook, as outlined in Chapter 9 of CP23/32, and the 
repeal of Articles 12 to 17 of the MiFID Org Reg, which set quantitative thresholds for 
SI determination across different asset classes. The changes to the SI definition in UK 
MiFIR, as included in FSMA 2023 (but not yet commenced), provide the foundation for 
the UK to adopt this qualitative approach to SI determination. 
2.21 
Under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 (Commencement No.8) Regulations 
2024, the new legislative definition of an SI will take effect on 1 December 2025. In the 
Policy Statement PS24/14 we made supporting rules and guidance that will also take 
effect on 1 December 2025. The transitional regime in Article 16ZA of the MiFID Org 
Reg sets out what happens if data is not available from regulators to enable firms to 
undertake calculations to determine whether they are an SI. This transitional regime 
expires at the end of this year. As set out in PS24/14, we do not propose to publish data 
on the overall size of the market before the new definition of an SI comes into force 
on 1 December 2025. In that period, we also said we will not expect firms to undertake 
calculations to determine their SI status. Firms will continue to be able to opt into the 
SI regime. 
Environmental, social and governance considerations 
2.22 
We have considered the environmental, social and governance implications of our 
proposals and our duty under ss. 1B(5) and 3B(c) of FSMA to have regard to contributing 
towards the Secretary of State achieving compliance with the net-zero emissions target 
under section 1 of the Climate Change Act 2008 and environmental targets under s. 
5 of the Environment Act 2021. We do not consider that the proposals are relevant to 
contributing to those targets. We will keep this issue under review during the course of 
the consultation period and when making final rules. 



11  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Equality and diversity considerations 
2.23 
Section 149 of the Equality Act 2010 (EA 2010) requires the FCA to have due regard 
to the need to eliminate discrimination, advance equality of opportunity and foster 
good relations between different people when carrying out their activities. We are also 
required to give thought to the potential impact of new proposals on relevant groups. 
2.24 
We have considered the equality and diversity issues that may arise from the proposals 
in this Consultation Paper. 
2.25 
Overall, as our intention is to maintain the regulatory requirements which currently 
apply to firms once the relevant parts of assimilated law are repealed, we do not 
consider that the proposals materially impact any of the groups with protected 
characteristics under the EA 2010. But we will continue to consider the equality and 
diversity implications of the proposals during the consultation period and when making 
the final rules. 
2.26 
In the meantime, we welcome your input to this consultation on what, if any, material 
impact there may be on different groups of consumers and how our proposals may 
otherwise impact on equality and diversity considerations. 



12 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 3 
Restating the MiFID Org Regulation 
in our rules 
3.1 
In this Chapter we outline our proposals to restate the firm-facing obligations from the 
MiFID Org Reg into our handbook with no policy changes. We also set out our general 
approach for the sourcebooks and non-Handbook guidance, including how we intend to 
approach terminology used. In Chapter 4 we ask for feedback on how, in the future, we 
could rationalise and simplify the provisions in our Handbook that stem from MiFID. In 
Annex 4 we have provided a derivation table outlining where we propose to put each of 
the firm-facing obligations into our Handbook. 
3.2 
Overall, we intend to maintain the current scope of application of our rules MiFID firms 
and non-MiFID business. This includes maintaining the current application of the 
provisions of the MiFID Org Reg to third country firms and Article 3 firms as well as to 
certain non-MiFID services and investments. 
3.3 
We set out specific changes made to each sourcebook and the rationale behind these 
changes. The sourcebooks and non-Handbook guidance manuals include: 
• 
The Conduct of Business sourcebook (COBS) 
• 
The Senior Management Arrangements, Systems and Controls sourcebook (SYSC) 
• 
The Market Conduct sourcebook (MAR) 
• 
The Recognised Investment Exchanges sourcebook (REC) 
• 
The Dispute Resolution sourcebook (DISP) 
3.4 
In the table below we have provided a high-level summary of the derivations table 
in Annex 4, broadly outlining where we propose to transfer each of the firm-facing 
obligations in the MiFID Org Reg into our handbook. 
Handbook Location 
MiFID Org Reg Article 
Provisions proposed to be restated in the Handbook 
These are broadly firm-facing requirements. Our general approach to drafting (with some 
limited exceptions, as explained in Annex 4) has been to restate the relevant requirement 
in the Handbook with changes to reflect Handbook drafting style and to simplify or clarify 
drafting where possible. We have not proposed policy changes. Where possible, we have relied 
on existing Handbook provisions, such as in the Glossary, to effect the transfer of relevant 
provisions of the MiFID Org Reg. 
The application provisions in Articles A1 and 1 of the MiFID Org Reg are given effect through the 
application provisions of relevant Handbook sourcebooks. 
Glossary 
Articles 2, 3, 16a, 28, 36(1), 77 and 78(3) 
SYSC 
Articles 21-25, 27, 30-35, 72, 76 and Annex I 
COBS 
Articles 29, 36-61, 63-71, 73-75, Annex I, Annex II and Annex IV 



13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Handbook Location 
MiFID Org Reg Article 
MAR 
Articles 78-80 and Annex III 
MAR and REC 
Articles 81(1) and 82 
DISP 
Article 26, Annex I 
Provisions not proposed to be restated in the Handbook 
These are generally provisions which do not impose requirements on firms (not ‘firm-facing’ 
requirements). These provisions are either already incorporated in UK law (such as the 
Regulated Activities Order) or will be otherwise restated by Treasury or simply repealed. 
Articles 4 to 11 (relate to the perimeter and are already 
accommodated in the RAO) 
Articles 12-16ZA, 17, 81(2) 
Articles 83-91 (not restated as part of this exercise) 
Our general approach 
3.5 
The origin of the MiFID Org Reg as a directly applicable EU regulation meant that 
in relation to the persons subject to its scope and application provisions applied, 
the regulation could only be replicated in our Handbook with the abbreviation ‘EU’ 
at the start of the provision (becoming a ‘UK’ abbreviation after the EU withdrawal 
implementation period). This denoted that the MiFID Org Reg provisions were copied 
out legislative material from the EU, rather than FCA-made rules. This copy-out was 
done for ease of reference for MiFID firms and to enable us to apply the requirements 
to non-MiFID investment business and non-MiFID firms as rules, where appropriate 
(see 1.4). We applied the content of the regulation and suitably adapted it to certain 
non-MiFID firms and non-MiFID business using application provisions in individual 
sourcebooks (e.g. SYSC 1 Annex 1 and individual chapters of COBS). 
3.6 
Our approach to Handbook terminology is to enable the restatement of the 
requirements in the MiFID Org Reg as FCA Handbook rules, using and adapting existing 
Handbook Glossary definitions, where possible, and creating new definitions, where 
necessary. We set out our proposals in more detail below. 
3.7 
We intend to make amendments to Handbook Glossary terms where necessary for 
the purpose of incorporating provisions of the MiFID Org Reg in the Handbook. We 
also propose consequential cross-referencing changes to other materials, in which we 
propose to update references to MiFID Org Reg Articles or Handbook rules, as a result of 
the restatement of the firm-facing obligations, including: 
• 
Client Assets sourcebook (CASS) 
• 
Decision Procedure and Penalties Manual (DEPP) 
• 
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook (DTR) 
• 
General Provisions (GEN) 
• 
Professional Firms sourcebook (PROF) 
• 
Supervision Manual (SUP) 
• 
The MiFID 2 Onshoring Guide (M2G) 
• 
Training and Competence sourcebook (TC) 



14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.8 
Any amendments to the Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) are dependent on HMT’s 
Statutory Instrument, therefore any potential changes to PERG will be addressed 
separately and will be consulted on in a quarterly CP in due course. 
3.9 
We propose that in the first instance we maintain a distinction between rules applicable 
to MiFID-scope investment business and other non-MiFID business (though in practice 
these rules are very similar). In time, we expect a comprehensive review of these 
distinctions to form part of a wider package of changes to provide for easier navigation 
and interpretation of our Handbook for users and to more closely calibrate regulatory 
requirements to the risks they are designed to mitigate. This will be subject to future 
consultations (see Chapter 4). 
3.10 
However, where possible and where it would not result in a change to the substance 
of requirements, we are using this restatement of provisions into the Handbook as 
an opportunity to clarify the drafting of requirements and align them with equivalent 
Handbook provisions. 
Recitals 
3.11 
For recitals that have previously been replicated in our Handbook either partially or in full, 
we propose to maintain them as guidance, marked by the abbreviation ‘G’ and to remove 
from them references to the MiFID Org Reg and other parts of assimilated law. We are 
not proposing to preserve any other recitals. 
Question 1: 
Do you agree with our approach to restating obligations 
from the MiFID Org Reg into our Handbook? 
[agree] 
[neutral] 
[disagree] 
Please explain your answer 
Question 2: 
Do you agree with our approach to maintain recitals as 
guidance, and remove references to the MiFID Org Reg 
where we have replicated the recital in full previously? 
[agree] 
[neutral] 
[disagree] 
Please explain your answer 
Senior Management Arrangements, Systems and Controls 
sourcebook 
3.12 
The MiFID Org Reg sets out the organisational requirements that apply to MiFID 
investment firms regarding: 
• 
Compliance (Article 22) 



15  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Risk management (Article 23) 
• 
Internal audit (Article 24) 
• 
Responsibility of senior management (Article 25) 
• 
Outsourcing (Article 30-32) 
• 
General organisational requirements (Article 21) 
• 
Conflicts of interest; (Articles 33-35) and 
• 
Renumeration of policies and practices (Article 27) 
3.13 
Many of these obligations are already contained in our Handbook in SYSC Chapters, 4 to 
10, 10A and 19F. 
3.14 
When restating assimilated law into our Handbook, our intention is to use this 
opportunity to deliver a more agile and coherent framework. This means reviewing 
rules and where appropriate, removing any unnecessary complexity. We have sought 
to do this through this consultation where such an amendment creates no change to 
obligations or regulatory burden. Where more complex changes are required, including 
in SYSC, we will consider harmonising and rationalising the requirements over the 
longer-term. 
3.15 
In line with our general approach to restate the firm-facing requirements in the MiFID 
Org Reg from legislation into Handbook rules we propose to incorporate Articles 21-25, 
27, 30-35, 72 and 76 from the MiFID Org Reg into the relevant Chapters in SYSC as rules 
either by: 
• 
Creating a new SYSC rule where the wording of the provision of the MiFID Org Reg 
was different; 
• 
Adjusting the existing SYSC rule where the text corresponds to the wording in the 
provision of the MiFID Org Reg; or 
• 
Making the necessary adaptations to Handbook terminology following the list 
of equivalent terms in the table in SYSC 1 Annex 1 2.8AR(2) and maintaining the 
longstanding concept of common platform firm. 
3.16 
In addition, with the application provisions in SYSC 1 Annex 1, we have incorporated 
these SYSC rules into the application tables in SYSC 1 Annex 1: 
• 
‘A’ (Application of the common platform requirements in SYSC 4 to SYSC 10); and 
• 
‘B’ (Application of the common platform requirements in SYSC 4 to 10 to MiFID 
optional exemption firms and third country firms). 
• 
Deleted table ‘C’ (Application of the requirements in Articles 1(2), 21 to 25, 30 
to 32 and 72 of the MiFID Org Reg to MiFID optional exemption firms and third 
country firms) given that these provisions are now incorporated in the body of the 
relevant SYSC chapters. 
3.17 
The overall aim is to preserve the effect of the current framework with no policy 
changes as regards content or scope. 



16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conflicts of interest 
3.18 
Articles 33-35 of the MiFID Org Reg sets out the detailed rules relating to the 
management of conflicts of interest for MiFID firms. 
3.19 
Very similar rules to the regulation’s requirements already exist in SYSC 10 rules because 
FCA extended the MiFID conflicts of interest requirements to all firms at the time of 
MiFID II transposition. We have therefore restated Articles 33-35 of the MiFID Org Reg 
in the Handbook by making amendments to the existing SYSC 10 rules, to apply them to 
common platform and Article 3 firms. 
3.20 
In amending the SYSC 10 rules, we have, for the time being, maintained some technical 
differences between the current SYSC rules, derived from different EU regimes, and 
the MiFID Org Reg provisions. For example, SYSC 10.1.4R(5) requires firms to consider 
inducements in the form of monies, goods or services. This language is derived from 
the UCITS. Article 33(e) of the MiFID Org Reg reflects more recent MiFID II language 
and requires firms to consider inducements in the form of monetary or non-monetary 
benefits or services. 
3.21 
In practice, read with the inducement rules applicable to all firms, we do not think this 
difference in wording represents a difference in obligations for different firms. However, 
for the avoidance of doubt we have maintained the technical distinction by drafting in 
SYSC 10.1.4R(6) for now. 
3.22 
In Chapter 4, we discuss and request stakeholders feedback on opportunities for 
simplification and rationalisation of FCA rules derived from various EU legislation in the 
future FCA rules. 
3.23 
The existing SYSC 10 rules have been adapted over time to implement conflicts of 
interest rules from a number of EU Directives, including MiFID, UCITS, Alternative 
Fund Managers Directive (AIFMD) and the Insurance Distribution Directive (IDD). Small 
technical differences in the drafting of each directive has led to substantial duplication 
and drafting complexity over time. We believe restating Articles 33-35 of the MiFID Org 
Reg within existing SYSC rules, making limited drafting changes to maintain the existing 
obligations for all firms, is preferable to restating Articles 33-35 into new rules which 
substantially duplicate existing rules. 
3.24 
Further alignment could substantially simplify these core rules for all firms. This would 
particularly benefit firms subject to conflicts rules from different regimes, such as asset 
managers and Article 3 firms. We discuss this further in Chapter 4. 
3.25 
We have also taken the opportunity to make some clarifications and corrections which 
we do not believe represent any change in policy. 
• 
SYSC 10.1.6AAR requires a firm to ensure its management body receives written 
reports on conflicts management at least annually. This rule was originally created 
to extend the application of Article 35 of the MiFID Org Reg to non-MiFID firms. 
It was adapted to implement a similar IDD implementing requirement. Both of 
these EU regulations require reporting to senior management, defined in the FCA 



17  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
glossary consistently with both MiFID and IDD. Accordingly, we have amended 
SYSC 10.1.6AAR to reflect this consistent approach. 
• 
SYSC 1 Annex 1 tables A and B summarise the application of SYSC 10 rules to 
different types of firms. Table A, column A is amended to reflect that SYSC10.1.8R, 
which transposes MiFID Article 23 relating to disclosure of conflicts, applies to 
common platform firms in relation to all business, rather than only insurance 
distribution activities. 
• 
Table B is amended to reflect the application of SYSC 10.1.6AAR, SYSC 10.1.9AR 
and SYSC 10.1.11AA to Article 3 firms and of SYSC 10.1.6AAR and SYSC 
10.1.11AAR as guidance to third country firms in relation to all their business, 
rather than only to insurance distribution activities. 
3.26 
As these corrections seek to reflect the policy position arrived at, following consultation 
and cost benefit analysis, we do not consider these corrections to be a policy change. 
Question 3: 
Do you agree with our proposed changes to SYSC? 
[agree] 
[neutral] 
[disagree] 
Please explain your answer 
Conduct of Business sourcebook 
3.27 
The MiFID Org Reg sets out conduct of business requirements relating to: 
• 
Personal transactions (Article 29) 
• 
Investment research (Articles 36, 37) 
• 
Underwriting/placing (Article 38) 
• 
Information to clients (Articles 44 to 51) 
• 
Suitability and appropriateness (Articles 54 to 58) 
• 
Reporting obligations (Articles 59 to 62) 
• 
Best execution (Articles 64 to 66) 
• 
Client order handling (Articles 67 to 70) 
• 
Record keeping (Articles 73 – 75, Annex IV) 
3.28 
We have made limited changes to COBS. 
3.29 
COBS 1 has been amended to simplify and clarify the application of COBS for different 
types of firms including Temporary Permission (TP) and Gibraltar firms and in relation 
to different types of business. In drafting these changes, we have sought to make it 
easier for firms to navigate the application of COBS without changing the application 
of the sourcebook itself. The application of COBS to TP and Gibraltar firms is now 
dealt with in COBS 1 Annex 2. Consequently, we have deleted a number of provisions 
throughout COBS which deal with the application of this sourcebook to these firms after 
IP completion day and consolidated the relevant provisions in COBS 1. 
3.30 
COBS 6.1ZA.5R(5) has been amended to use the wider term ‘appointed representative’ 
alongside ‘tied agent’ because Article 3 firms do not appoint ‘tied agents’. We think 



18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
this inclusion is uncontentious because COBS 6.1.4R and 6.1ZA.7AR require firms 
conducting non-MiFID business to make disclosures on appointed representatives and 
when the equivalent rule in MiFID I was transposed, the term appointed representative 
was used. 
3.31 
The requirements in Article 46 of the MiFID Org Reg were initially copied directly into 
different COBS chapters. This meant that they did not align with the usual structure and 
style of the Handbook. Instead of incorporating them following our usual approach to 
drafting, we copied out the EU text. Additionally, some requirements, like those about 
costs and charges in paragraphs (2A) and (2B), are only relevant in the context of COBS 
6.1ZA, so we have now removed them from other sections where they aren’t needed. 
3.32 
COBS 16A.3.5 UK (copying out Article 61 of the MiFID Org Reg) is no longer required and 
has been deleted as the application of COBS to eligible counterparty business (ECPs) 
is dealt with in COBS 1 Annex 1. Article 61 of the MiFID Org Reg originally provided that 
‘The requirements applicable to reports for retail and professional clients under Articles 
49 and 59 shall apply unless investment firms enter into agreements with eligible 
counterparties to determine content and timing of reporting.’ This provision referred 
more specifically to reporting obligations and was amended by SI 2021/774. That 
amendment was reflected in the Handbook and dis-applies various Articles of the MiFID 
Org Reg to services provided to ECPs. As we address the application of COBS to ECPs in 
COBS Annex 1, this provision is no longer required. 
3.33 
We propose that the record-keeping requirements which are currently contained in 
Annex I of the MiFID Org Reg be replaced with individual rules within sections of COBS. 
We propose that these provisions cross-refer to the more general record-keeping 
requirements in SYSC. The location of these is summarised in the proposed changes to 
Schedule 1 to COBS. 
3.34 
Our proposed changes to COBS involve Articles 50 and 51 of the MiFID Org Reg 
being restated into the Handbook without amendment. We propose to consult on 
requirements relating to the disclosure of costs and charges (including with respect 
to the requirements in Articles 50 and 51) as part of our consultation on the new 
retail disclosure regime that will replace the assimilated PRIIPs Regulation and UCITS 
disclosure requirements. 
Question 4: 
Do you agree with our proposed changes to COBS? 
[agree] 
[neutral] 
[disagree] 
Please explain your answer 



19  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Market Conduct Sourcebook 
3.35 
We have made changes to the Handbook in relation to market conduct rules. 
3.36 
Articles 77 to 79 of the MiFID Org Reg set out aspects of the regime for Small and 
Medium sized growth markets. Including setting out who qualifies as a Small and 
Medium-sized Enterprises (SME), the registration of an SME growth market and the 
deregistration of an SME growth market. We are copying out the substance of these 
Articles in new provisions in MAR 5.10. 
3.37 
Article 80 of the MiFID Org Reg sets out the considerations a regulator or trading 
venue must take into account in considering whether a decision to suspend or remove 
from trading a financial instrument would likely cause significant damage to investors’ 
interests or the orderly functioning of the market. This has been copied into MAR 5.6A 
in respect of Multilateral Trading Facilities (MTFs) and MAR 5A.9 in respect of Organised 
Trading Facilities (OTFs). The corresponding provisions relating to the regulator need to 
remain in legislation. 
3.38 
Article 81 of the MiFID Org Reg and Section A of Annex III elaborate on the obligation on 
trading venues to inform the FCA of significant infringements of their rules, disorderly 
trading conditions or systems disruptions and set out what signals might indicate 
that the threshold for notification has been met. We have replicated the reporting 
requirement in new provisions in MAR 5.6.1 for MTFs and MAR 5A.8.1 for OTFs and the 
signals in a proposed new annex, MAR 1 Annex III. 
3.39 
Article 82 and Section B of Annex III of the MiFID Org Reg elaborate on the obligation 
on trading venues to inform the FCA of possible instances of market abuse and set 
out what signals might indicate market abuse. We have replicated these reporting 
requirements in the Handbook, in MAR 5A.6.1 for MTFs and in MAR 5A.8.1 for OTFs and 
the signals in a proposed new annex, in MAR 1 Annex III. These signals are separate to 
the market manipulation and insider dealing activities and indicators in the UK Market 
Abuse Regulation which trading venue operators and firms’ are required to identify and 
report to the FCA in Suspicious Transaction and Order Reports. When the repeal of the 
UK Market Abuse Regulation is commenced by HMT, consideration could be given to 
consolidating these indicators of possible market abuse behaviours. 



20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 5: 
Do you agree with our proposed changes to MAR? 
[agree] 
[neutral] 
[disagree] 
Please explain your answer 
Recognised Investment Exchange (RIE) and Recognised 
Clearing House (REC) sourcebook 
3.40 
The revisions to REC deal with the same issues as the changes to MAR. There is slightly 
revised wording in REC 2.16A in respect of recognised investment exchanges running 
SME growth markets to reflect the fact that following FSMA 2023 we have a general 
rulemaking power in respect of RIEs. REC 2.6.6A inserts provisions relating to when the 
suspension or removal from trading of financial instruments would be likely to cause 
significant damage to investors’ interests or the orderly functioning of the market. REC 
3.25 inserts provisions relating to notifying the FCA of significant infringements of their 
rules, disorderly trading conditions or systems disruptions. 
3.41 
We also propose deleting provisions of the delegated regulation of MiFID that were 
copied out in REC 2.6,10,11,15 & 16. Since the implementation of MiFID II in 2018 these 
provisions have no longer been in force. 
Question 6: 
Do you agree with our proposed changes to REC? 
[agree] 
[neutral] 
[disagree] 
Please explain your answer 
Dispute Resolution: Complaints sourcebook (DISP) 
3.42 
We propose amending DISP 1.1A which currently sets out requirements for dealing 
with complaints, this falls within the scope of Article 26 of the MiFID Org Reg. 
Similar amendments are proposed to DISP 2.3. Alongside other Glossary definition 
amendments we propose amending the Glossary definition of a MiFID complaint by 
replacing the reference to it being a complaint to which Article 26 of the MiFID Org Reg 
applies, with the current wording in DISP 1.1A.3G which sets out the scope of Article 26. 
This approach should maintain the same scope as the current MiFID complaints regime. 
3.43 
The Financial Ombudsman Service (Financial Ombudsman) operates two jurisdictions 
– the compulsory jurisdiction and the voluntary jurisdiction. The voluntary jurisdiction 
largely mirrors the rules made in the compulsory jurisdiction and the Glossary definitions 
used in those rules. Where the FCA is proposing to amend the Glossary definitions used 
in compulsory jurisidiction rules that are already mirrored in the voluntary jurisdiction the 
Financial Ombudsman intends to mirror those proposed changes proposed changes 
(set out above at 3.44) in the voluntary jurisdiction. 



21  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.44 
The Financial Ombudsman has the power, with the consent of the FCA, to make 
certain types of compulsory jurisdiction rules known as “scheme rules”. The 
Ombudsman Service is proposing to adopt the FCA’s proposed changes to the Glossary 
definitions into its scheme rules where those glossary terms are used in the Financial 
Ombudsman's scheme rules. 
3.45 
This section of the consultation relating to the voluntary jurisdiction rules and scheme 
rules is issued jointly by FCA and the Financial Ombudsman. 
Question 7: 
Do you agree with our proposed changes to DISP? 
[agree] 
[neutral] 
[disagree] 
Please explain your answer 
Question 8: 
Do you agree with the Financial Ombudsman's proposal 
to mirror the FCA’s proposed changes to DISP into its 
voluntary jurisdiction? 
[agree] 
[neutral] 
[disagree] 
Please explain your answer 
Question 9: 
Do you agree with the Financial Ombudsman's proposal to 
adopt the FCA’s proposed changes to the Glossary into its 
scheme rules where those Glossary definitions are used in 
the Financial Ombudsman scheme rules? 
[agree] 
[neutral] 
[disagree] 
Please explain your answer 
Derivation and changes table 
3.46 
The Derivation and Changes Table in Annex 4 indicates the proposed location of each 
firm-facing obligation once restated in our Handbook. 
3.47 
In respect of Annex I of the MiFID Org Reg (record-keeping), we have taken account of 
the typographical cross-referencing errors which were corrected in the EU version of the 
MiFID Org Reg after Implementation Period Completion Date (IPCD). These errors were 
corrected by Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/1254 of 21 April 2021 which 
was not assimilated into UK law as it came into force after IPCD. In the Derivations and 
Changes Table at Annex 4, we have used the correct cross-references from the above EU 
regulation, notwithstanding that this differs from the UK version of the MiFID Org Reg. 



22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 10: Are there any inconsistencies in the derivations table that 
might affect your compliance or understanding of the 
changes?  
Yes 
No 
Please explain your answer 
Question 11: 
Do you agree with our proposed approach to the future 
of each provision of the MiFID Org Reg as outlined in the 
derivations table in Annex 4? 
[agree] 
[neutral] 
[disagree] 
Please explain your answer 
Question 12: Are there any provisions not currently proposed for 
restatement in the Handbook that you think should be 
included? 
Yes [please specify which provision] 
No 
Please explain your answer 
Other considerations: 
Question 13: Do any of our proposed changes amount to a change in the 
scope or application of a provision? 
Yes [please specify which provision] 
No 
Please explain your answer 



23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rights of action 
3.48 
Under section 138D of FSMA, persons may be able to bring an action for damages 
where an authorised person breaches FCA rules unless this right has been disapplied. 
We are proposing that our approach to the application of section 138D rights broadly 
follows the existing way in which the relevant sourcebooks address those rights. 
This means, for example, that the right of action provided for by section 138D would 
generally apply to breaches of MiFID Org Reg requirements which are restated in COBS 
but not to those which are restated into SYSC. 
Question 14: Are the provisions in the legal instrument clearly aligned 
with the policy objectives outlined in this consultation 
paper? Please highlight any areas requiring clarification. 
Yes 
No 
Please explain your answer 
Question 15: Do you agree with our decision not to include a CBA in this 
consultation paper? 
[agree] 
[neutral] 
[disagree] 
Please explain your answer 
Cost Benefit Analysis 
3.49 
Under section 138L(3) of FSMA we are not required to publish a CBA if, in making the 
appropriate comparison, we consider either there will be no increase in costs or the 
increase in costs will be of minimal significance. Annex 2 provides further details. 
Question 16: Do you agree with our proposed approach to the 
application of rights of action under section 138D of FSMA? 
[agree] 
[neutral] 
[disagree] 
Please explain your answer 
Question 17: 
Please provide any other feedback on this Consultation 
Paper 



24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 4 
Future amendments to EU Derived 
Organisational and Conduct rules 
4.1 
Many of our conduct and organisational rules are derived from EU Directives and their 
implementing measures. A number of EU directives, such as UCITS Directive, AIFMD, 
IDD, MiFID and the Capital Requirements Directive (CRD), included common operating 
standards for firms, such as requirements to maintain adequate policies, procedures 
and control functions and responsibilities of management bodies (‘organisational rules’). 
They also included broadly similar standards on how firms conduct their activity with 
clients, such as conflicts of interest rules and information to be provided to clients. 
4.2 
Where possible, and supported in consultation responses, the FCA sought at the time of 
transposing each EU directive to apply a common standard to firms conducting similar 
activities. For example, the common platform requirements in SYSC were devised to 
ensure a single set of organisational requirements would apply to firms subject to both 
MiFID and the CRD, rather than applying similar but slightly different requirements from 
these directives on the same business functions. 
4.3 
Over time this became increasingly challenging. The law-making process for each 
directive was independent of the others and each of them has been amended at 
different times. In more recent directives, including MiFID II, IDD and AIFMD, many of the 
detailed implementing measures were in the form of regulations (since transposed into 
directly applicable assimilated law). In these cases, the FCA had no scope to make minor 
amendments to maintain a common standard across the files. 
4.4 
This resulted in largely duplicative rules across our Handbook with small differences 
in technical detail, and complex application rules needed to modify directly applicable 
obligations to apply to non-MIFID business. 
4.5 
We think there is scope to simplify and amend the provisions in our Handbook that stem 
from MiFID. We particularly want feedback on areas of complexity, confusion or over 
prescription which create regulatory cost with limited or no client benefit in addition 
to duplication where firms carry on business subject to multiple regimes. With our 
secondary international competitiveness and growth objective in mind, we also want 
to include appropriate flexibility in our rules to be responsive to future changes and 
innovation, as well as interoperability with global operating models. 
4.6 
Potential areas in which we could rationalise or improve the rules for the benefits of 
firms and markets, without negatively impacting client protection may include: 
• 
Reducing the complexity and length of the Handbook by rationalising largely 
duplicative conduct and organisational rules derived from various EU directives 
(mostly in COBS and SYSC) and removing the distinctions in rules between types 
of firms if there is no substantive difference in obligations. 



25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Replacing ineffective distinctions between different types of firms by tailoring or 
calibrating rules to better suit different sectors, or to better enable technological 
development and innovation. 
• 
Introducing flexibility on how firms can meet existing obligations, taking a more 
outcomes-based approach where this may allow firms to better meet the needs of 
clients – including retail and wholesale. 
• 
Considering whether certain rules do not meet their intended objective, either 
because they have never been effective (either generally or when applied in 
particular context) or because they have become redundant due to market or 
technological development. 
• 
Rationalising the body of level 3 and other materials firms may rely on to interpret 
our rules. 
4.7 
We asked similar questions about Handbook simplification in our CFI on the Consumer 
Duty, focussing on where our retail conduct rules and guidance which overlap with 
the Consumer Duty could be simplified. Though we also asked for views on our wider 
Handbook as part of that publication, it did not focus on wholesale business. We think 
there is an opportunity for firms to share a more detailed overview of action we might 
take, for more specific feedback than we have received through the CFI. 
4.8 
We will be reviewing the feedback from the Consumer Duty CFI alongside feedback to 
this paper. We have also previously asked questions about areas for simplification in 
DP23/2: Updating and improving the UK regime for asset management. We are awaiting 
action from the Government on the restatement of AIFMD and UCITS before any 
changes can be taken forward. We are keen to build on the feedback that we received 
that there may be benefit in standardising certain requirements across the different 
files, over the longer term. However, consideration would need to be given to the costs 
of doing so. 
4.9 
We will only make changes where there is clear benefit in doing so, having due regard 
to our statutory objectives, and subject to any necessary consultation and CBA. In 
doing so, we will balance the advantages of simplicity against the potential for additional 
differentiation to better target the harm the rules are intended to address. 
4.10 
We are also mindful of the benefits of being consistent with international standards and 
will take account of rules in other jurisdictions, so that firms can continue to operate 
efficiently on a global basis. 
4.11 
We want to understand what impact any such potential improvements might have on 
stakeholders. We will need to consider the interaction between the different files and 
will need to carefully consider how we sequence this work. We will use the feedback we 
get from this CP to help shape our approach to rule-making under the new regulatory 
framework and help us decide what we should prioritise. 
Question 18: Are there any specific rules that are challenging to navigate 
or apply to any particular type of firm or activities? Do 
any of our rules (or related level 3 or other FCA materials) 
impose operational costs or other disadvantages that are 



26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
disproportionate to the client protection they provide? If 
so, please state which rules and why. 
Question 19: Do any MiFID derived conduct or organisational rules create 
challenges in their interaction with other FCA rules or 
international standards? 
Question 20: What are the likely benefits of any rationalisation or 
improvements you would propose, for example reduced 
compliance costs or improved competition? 
Immediate opportunity for rationalisation 
4.12 
In this section, we explain further the opportunity to reduce the complexity and length 
of our Handbook that we have identified. 
SYSC 10 Conflicts of Interest rules 
4.13 
One example where we see scope for simplification are the conflicts of interest rules. 
4.14 
MiFID, UCITS directive, AIFMD, IDD all included rules on conflicts of interest which were 
substantially very similar. As a result, SYSC 10 includes a number of conflicts rules which 
are very similar but apply only to a specified activity. For example, SYSC 10.1.8R, SYSC 
10.1.9AR, SYSC 10.1.21R, SYSC 10.1.26R and SYSC 10.1A.6R all detail conflict disclosure 
requirements that apply to different activities that firms conduct. 
4.15 
Firms doing mixed business may be subject to two or more different SYSC conflict 
disclosure rules in relation to their different activities, even though the standard in each 
is substantially the same. A firm must disclose in line with SYSC 10.1A.6R in relation to 
insurance-based investment products, but in line with SYSC 10.1.8R and SYSC 10.1.9AR 
in relation to distribution of MiFID financial instruments, for example. 
4.16 
It is necessary to read SYSC 10 in conjunction with SYSC 1 Annex 1, which modifies 
certain SYSC provisions. It also provides a road map for different types of firms setting 
out how the SYSC 10 rules apply to them in relation to different aspects of their activity. 
4.17 
In Chapter 3 we explained that we propose to restate the conflict of interest obligations 
in Articles 33-35 of the MiFID Org Reg into existing SYSC 10 provisions by making minor 
drafting changes which do not change the effect of the provisions. 
4.18 
To fully rationalise SYSC 10 we will carefully consider where rules need to continue to 
differentiate between different activities and whether small differences in language 
practically give rise to substantive impacts for firms. 
4.19 
For example, SYSC 10.1.11R (transposed from UCITS Directive) requires a firm to specify 
in its conflicts policy procedures and measures to ‘manage’ conflicts. The MiFID Org Reg 
(proposed to be restated into SYSC 10.1.11R) requires the policy to specify procedures 



27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and measures to ‘prevent or manage’ conflicts. AIFMD Implementing Regulation 
requires procedures to ‘prevent manage and monitor’ conflicts to be specified, and 
SYSC 10.1A.4R (transposing IDD) requires the policy to specify procedures to ‘manage 
and prevent conflicts from damaging the interests of the client’. We do not believe the 
technical differences in the conflict’s rules are substantive, given the application of SYSC 
10.1.3R requiring all firms to take all appropriate steps to prevent or manage conflicts. 
4.20 
We will consider consulting on rationalising and simplifying SYSC 10 so that it is easier for 
firms to understand the standards that apply. 
Question 21: 
Do you agree that it would benefit firms to rationalise SYSC 
10? 
Question 22: What differences between conflicts rules for different 
types of activity do you think need to be maintained in a 
rationalised SYSC 10? 
Best execution and personal account dealing 
4.21 
Other examples of rules which could be rationalised, without substantively changing the 
obligations, include best execution rules in COBS 11.2, COBS11.2A and COBS 11.2B. 
Rationalising these sections could allow us to more clearly distinguish between the 
obligations of different types of firms in the execution chain. 
4.22 
Similarly, COBS 11.7 and COBS 11.7A apply substantially the same rules to personal 
account dealing in relation to MiFID business and non-MiFID business. 
Question 23: Do you agree that it would be beneficial to rationalise these 
requirements? 
More complex opportunities for rationalisation 
4.23 
We have identified a number of areas where we think changes to the requirements are 
merited, but such changes would be more complex and would also have a more material 
impact on firms. We would welcome views on whether any of these should be actioned. 
Information and disclosure requirements 
4.24 
Provision of information which enables clients to make the right decisions is essential. 
Many COBS chapters require information to be provided to clients at different stages 
of their investment journey. For example, COBS 2 requires disclosures to be made both 
in relation to certain products (eg risk warnings) and services (eg costs and charges) 
before services are provided, as well as some ongoing disclosure requirements eg in 
relation to inducements. COBS 6 specifies a wide range of disclosure and information 
requirements relating to, among other things, general information about the firm, 
information about the basis on which advice is given. COBS 14 specifies information 



28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to be provided to clients in relation to investments offered to the client, including risk 
warnings, and COBS 16 and 16A specify requirements about reporting to clients in 
relation to transactions and client assets held on behalf of the client. 
4.25 
Later this year we will be consulting on a new retail disclosure regime. The new 
framework will replace the PRIIPs Regulation and the UCITS disclosure requirements, 
with a more flexible approach. Products formerly under the PRIIPs and UCITS regimes, 
including overseas funds in the Overseas Funds Regime (OFR), will be subject to the 
rules in the new regime. Any changes to the MiFID requirements would need to be 
considered in conjunction with changes relating to product disclosures. 
4.26 
More broadly, rationalising our information and disclosure rules might have long­
term benefits for firms and consumers. It might improve competition by simplifying 
the compliance burden for new firms entering the market or accommodating future 
financial product innovations. It may also make it easier for us to supervise firms’ 
compliance with these requirements more efficiently. However, reviewing and 
rationalising these rules will be complex and will require careful consideration and may 
incur costs for firms. We therefore propose to consider how we might do this over the 
longer term. Feedback from this discussion will help us to consider which information 
and disclosure requirements we should prioritise to review. 
Question 24: Do you have any specific suggestions for which disclosure 
requirements could be rationalised? This does not include 
CCIs. 
[If yes, please explain your answer, including which 
disclosure requirements should be prioritised for review, 
and why.] 
Client categorisation 
4.27 
The client categorisation regime facilitates calibration of client protections to different 
types of clients with varying levels of financial knowledge, experience and risk tolerance. 
Under the regime, clients can be categorised as retail, professional or (for certain types 
of activity) eligible counterparty (ECP) based on fixed criteria (per se categorisation). 
The regime also allows flexibility for clients to opt up or down to an alternative category 
where they consider that their ‘per se’ category does not reflect their capabilities to 
properly assess the risks of the financial markets in which they participate. 
4.28 
Client categorisation is used to calibrate protections such as suitability and 
appropriateness tests for certain services, best execution, a range of disclosure 
obligations and access to certain redress mechanisms. Significant additional consumer 
protection measures have been introduced in recent years for clients categorised 
as retail, including the Consumer Duty and restrictions in relation to certain higher 
risk products such as leverage limits for Contracts for Difference (CFDs). Many 
regulatory protections do not apply in relation to professional clients and ECPs which 
are considered capable to assess the risks that they are taking and which avoids 
unnecessary friction and costs for wholesale business. 



29  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Why we are seeking feedback 
4.29 
The principle that clients should be categorised into different categories is well 
established, and aids good functioning of the market. It allows, for example, for more 
streamlined requirements for wholesale market participants. However, if not calibrated 
appropriately, categorisations can create challenges. 
4.30 
Most of the thresholds and criteria for determining the category of a client were 
established over 17 years ago. In that time, there have been significant economic, social 
and technological changes. It is appropriate for us to consider whether the boundaries 
for each of the client categories are where they should be and whether client protection 
rules are calibrated correctly for each category. 
4.31 
We are aware that client categorisation is a core process in firms’ operations, established 
and maintained at great cost. Any changes to this regime will only be made if there is 
clear benefit in doing so, and subject to consultation and cost benefit analysis. 
4.32 
We are also aware of responses to the Consumer Duty Call for Input and from responses 
to DP 23/2 Updating and improving the UK regime for asset management that some 
firms think these rules should be amended. 
Per se Professional and ECP 
4.33 
There is substantial overlap between the per se professional and per se ECP categories. 
As the calibration of protections afforded to each category is based on the types of 
entities in the per se category, we want to consider whether the current boundaries 
are best placed to facilitate appropriate calibration of rules to these wholesale client 
categories. 
4.34 
In particular we want to consider whether entities that act on behalf of underlying 
clients should be treated as per se ECPs. In practice we understand such entities tend 
to request to opt down to professional status to ensure they meet their obligations in 
relation to their own clients. Removing such entities from the per se ECP list would mean 
they would be categorised as professional by default, rather than having to request to 
opt down. 
4.35 
MiFID II narrowed the difference in treatment of retail and professional clients and ECPs. 
Ensuring the thresholds for each category are right may enable us to reserve certain 
protections for professional clients. This could clearly distinguish the ECP category 
as one that minimises friction in dealing between the most sophisticated entities that 
expect or require little protection. 



30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 25: Do firms that act on behalf of clients tend to request to opt 
down to professional status? Should such firms be removed 
from the list of entities that can be treated as per se ECP? 
Would this help clearer calibration of client protection 
rules? 
Question 26: Could the per se categories be simplified in other ways, 
eg , replacing different types of authorised firm listed 
separately with ‘authorised person’? Or harmonising the 
differences in certain thresholds within the wholesale 
categories which differ for MiFID and non-MiFID business? 
Elective categorisation 
4.36 
We would like to consider how well the process for allowing clients to elect to be 
categorised differently than their per se category is working. In particular: 
i. 
Does the process allow sufficient flexibility for clients to switch category when 
appropriate? 
ii. Are the current rules and guidance sufficiently clear to discourage firms 
inappropriately opting clients up to avoid consumer protections from which these 
clients should benefit? 
iii. Whether the use of elective professional categorisation in relation to financial 
promotion rules remains appropriate in all circumstances? 
4.37 
The bar for opting a retail client up to be treated as a professional is high. We believe it 
should be, given the extent of protections the client will waive if their request to opt up 
is accepted. Through our supervision we have observed some poor practices in recent 
years where firms are not conducting adequate assessments of clients’ expertise, 
experience and knowledge when opting them up to professional client status. Some 
firms ask poor quality questions of clients, accept weak answers and keep insufficient 
records to support their assessment. Of particular concern are those firms whose 
processes appear to be designed to encourage clients to opt up to avoid higher 
consumer protections, such as leverage limits on CFDs. 
4.38 
Whilst we observe some poor practice, we recognise there are positive reasons for 
opting clients up. We recognise that the pace and creativity of innovation in UK financial 
services creates new opportunity for businesses and consumers to participate in 
capital markets. The FCA has a statutory objective to secure an appropriate degree 
of protection for consumers but in considering what degree of protection may be 
appropriate, we must have regard to (amongst other things) the general principle 
that consumers should take responsibility for their decisions. For investors who can 
understand and accept levels of risk, our rules should not act as a barrier to their ability 
to act in their interests and pursue their financial objectives. 



31  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current opt up rules 
4.39 
COBS 3.5.3R(1) requires that a firm may only accept a retail client’s request to opt 
up to professional status if it has undertaken an adequate assessment of the client’s 
expertise, experience and knowledge (the “qualitative test”). COBS 3.5.5G provides that 
the fitness test firms apply to their own managers and directors is an example of what 
an adequate assessment may look like. 
4.40 
Firms carrying out MiFID business, or mixed business, must also meet the ‘quantitative 
test’. This requires the firm to ensure the client satisfies two out of the three criteria 
specified in COBS 3.5.3R(2) or, where the client is a local public authority or municipality, 
the quantitative criteria specified in COBS 3.5.3BR or COBS 3.5.3ER, as relevant. 
4.41 
COBS 3.5.6R specifies further that a firm must take all reasonable steps to ensure 
that a client requesting to opt up satisfies the qualitative test, and in the case of MiFID 
or mixed business, the quantitative test, before accepting the client’s request. COBS 
3.8.2R(2) requires firms to keep records of sufficient information to support their 
decision to categorise a client as professional by election. 
4.42 
As we explain above, COBS 3.5 set a high bar for opting up a retail client to elective 
professional status. When determining whether to treat a retail client as an elective 
professional, a firm must undertake a robust assessment of the client’s expertise, 
experience, and knowledge. This assessment should provide reasonable assurance that 
the client is capable of making their own investment decisions and understanding the 
associated risks. It is not enough for firms simply to ‘tick the box’. The same standard 
applies whether a firm is opting clients up on an occasional basis or because it has taken 
the commercial decision not to deal with retail clients. The poor practices we have 
identified are products of firms not maintaining adequate processes. Further, until a 
client is opted up, they remain a retail client by default and therefore benefit from the 
protections afforded by the Consumer Duty. 
Possible alternative approaches 
4.43 
We welcome feedback on a range of possible alternatives to add flexibility to the opt up 
process and remove barriers to investment for very experienced investors, while further 
discouraging poor practices. Options may include, but not be limited to: 
i. 
Updating and / or adding alternative quantitative test criteria. This could include: 
– adding product specific criteria or alternative indicators of a client’s expertise, 
knowledge and experience. 
– adjusting the asset threshold 
ii. Aligning the rules for MiFID business with the current standard for non-MiFID 
business (which does not specify particular quantitative criteria that must be met 
in all cases). This standard requires firms to exercise judgement in applying the 
outcomes based qualitative test. This could give firms the flexibility to design, 
document and implement assessment policies and procedures appropriate to 
the range of services they provide and clients they provide those services to. This 
approach could additionally include: 



32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
– additional Handbook guidance on factors firms should consider in making their 
assessment of the client 
– making a minimum investment portfolio threshold a prerequisite to opting up. 
iii. Strengthening the process for ensuring consumers understand the implications 
of requesting to opt up, including with respect to the regulatory protections they 
would forego. This could include: 
– outcomes based rules or Handbook guidance on client engagement and / 
or education similar to the requirements of the Consumer Duty customer 
understanding objective 
– introduction of a cooling off period to ensure a client has adequate time to 
assess the implications of their request to opt up 
– periodic confirmation that the client wants to continue to be treated as a 
professional in relation to the relevant products and services, providing them 
opportunity to opt back in for retail protections. In particular where changes 
have been made to the protections for retail clients since they opted out, for 
example following the introduction of the Consumer Duty. Noting the existing 
COBS 3.5.9R requirement that if a firm becomes aware that a client no longer 
fulfils the initial conditions that made it eligible for categorisation as an elective 
professional, the firm must take appropriate action. 
Question 27: 
How important is it to your clients to have the ability to opt 
up to professional client status? What are the benefits to 
clients of opting up eg is there a cost saving from lower fees 
and /or better pricing? 
Question 28: Do you think we should change our rules in relation to 
opting clients up to professional status? If yes, would you 
support any of the approaches suggested above, or a 
combination of these? Are there any alternative approaches 
you would suggest? 
Question 29: Where possible, please quantify the effect changes would 
have. For example, estimate the additional potential 
investment in UK capital markets from certain client groups 
as a result of any proposed change in the opt up rules. 
Interaction of client categorisation with the financial promotion rules 
4.44 
The client categorisation regime interacts with the financial promotion regime. 
The financial promotion regime for example, incorporates exemptions, including by 
reference to recipients’ sophistication or net worth. However, many of the financial 
promotion rules are also disapplied in relation to promotions made to non-retail clients. 
4.45 
‘Client’ in this context is broader than its usual meaning. In relation to the financial 
promotion rules a ‘client’ includes anyone to whom a financial promotion is or is likely to 
be communicated by the firm or where the firm has approved the promotion, even if the 



33  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
firm will not provide any service in connection with regulated activities to that person 
(COBS 3.2.1R(3)). 
4.46 
A firm is not required to formally notify a person of their categorisation for the purposes 
of COBS 3.3 where that person is only being treated as a ‘client’ for the purposes of 
the financial promotion rules. That is, a person to whom they do not provide a service 
involving designated investment business. For example, when a firm communicates or 
approves a financial promotion relating to qualifying cryptoassets, in relation to which 
there are currently no regulated activities, or when communicating with a corporate 
finance / venture capital contact. Note that firms may be required to ‘categorise’ a client 
other than under COBS 3 depending on the product they are promoting. For example, 
direct offer financial promotions of restricted mass market investments to retail clients 
are subject to client categorisation requirements set out in COBS 4.12A.21R. 
4.47 
However, financial promotion rules differentiate between promotions to retail and 
non-retail investors. In applying these requirements, firms must have regard to the 
client categories in COBS 3 for the purposes of establishing the status of the person 
or persons to whom they are intending to communicate (or who are likely to receive 
promotions which they are approving). 
4.48 
Among the rules which do not apply to non-retail promotions are the fair, clear and 
not misleading rule and various substantive rules relating to the form, content and 
presentation (eg in relation to risk warnings) of promotions. That being said, while the 
fair, clear and not misleading rule may not apply to a non-retail communication in its 
capacity as a financial promotion, it may still apply in so far as the communication is one 
in relation to designated investment business (COBS 4.2.2G(2)). 
4.49 
In recent years, the FCA has also imposed marketing restrictions which limit the extent 
to which firms can promote certain high-risk investments to retail clients. For example, 
speculative illiquid securities (such as speculative mini-bonds) cannot be marketed to a 
retail client unless an exemption is applicable, eg, the investor is certified as a high-net 
worth or a sophisticated investor. 
4.50 
We think it continues to be appropriate that certain financial promotion rules do not 
apply in relation to per se professional and ECP ‘clients’. However, we welcome feedback 
on whether firms accept requests from ‘clients’ to elect to be opted up to professional 
status for the purpose of exempting them from certain financial promotion rules. 
Question 30: In what circumstances do clients opt up to be treated as 
elective professionals for the purpose of exemption from 
certain financial promotion rules only? 
Corporate finance contacts 
4.51 
The corporate finance contacts regime is a long-standing regulatory regime which 
broadly enables firms advising corporates on capital raising to treat potential investors 
as mere contacts rather than clients for the purpose of COBS and MiFID based 
obligations (including MiFID Org Reg rules). The purpose of the regime is to ensure 
potential investors understand that the corporate finance firm is acting in the interests 



34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of the corporate, and not providing services to the potential investor with the associated 
implications regarding regulatory protections. 
4.52 
Under the regime the corporate finance firm nevertheless remains subject to the 
financial promotion rules when communicating financial promotions, or approving 
promotions for communication, to potential investors. COBS 3.2.2G explains that a 
corporate finance contact is a ‘client’ of the firm for this purpose, and the firm must 
comply with the financial promotion rules accordingly. 
4.53 
To comply with the financial promotion rules in COBS 4, a firm must consider whether 
the recipient of a financial promotion will be a retail or non-retail ‘client’. As a result, firms 
undertaking corporate finance business may need to consider the categorisation of 
their corporate finance contacts for the purpose of applying the financial promotion 
rules. 
4.54 
An essential element of the corporate finance contact regime is that the firm must not 
give any indication to the contact (the potential investor) that they are treated as a client 
and must not behave in a way which might reasonably be expected to lead the contact 
to believe they are being treated as a client. 
4.55 
If a firm is treating a contact as an elective professional when applying the financial 
promotion rules, it must apply the requirements in COBS 3.5.3R which apply to non-
MiFID business. This requires that the ‘client’ must first request in writing to be treated 
as a professional. The firm must then adequately assess that the client’s expertise, 
experience, and knowledge is such that they are capable of making their own investment 
decisions and understanding the risks involved in the anticipated investment, warn the 
client of the protections they will lose, and obtain the client’s written statement that 
they are aware of the consequences of losing those protections. 
4.56 
Therefore, the process of opting a contact up to elective professional status could carry 
a risk of a contact believing they are being treated as a true client. 
4.57 
COBS 3.8 requirements to document processes for the assessment of a client’s 
category, and to keep records sufficient to support such assessment, are not applicable 
in relation to corporate finance contacts. However, a firm must comply with general 
governance and record keeping requirements, including SYSC 4 and SYSC 9. Under 
these rules, firms are required to meet equivalent standards in relation to all of their 
activities, including when treating contacts as elective professionals for the purpose of 
the financial promotion rules. 
Question 31: 
To what extent do firms treat corporate finance contacts as 
elective professional clients for the purpose of complying 
with the financial promotion rules? 
Question 32: How do firms navigate the process of opting up while 
ensuring that contacts are not under the impression that 
they are receiving a service in the relation to a designated 
investments (and related protections) from the firm? 



35  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Venture capital contacts 
4.58 
A similar regime to the corporate finance contact regime exists for venture capital 
contacts. The primary requirement of the venture capital contacts regime is that the 
venture capital firm must not give any indication to the contact that they are treated as 
a client. We welcome feedback from stakeholders on any circumstances in which the 
venture capital contacts regime is used. 
Question 33: To the extent you rely on the venture capital contacts 
regime, please provide answers to the questions we have 
asked for corporate finance contacts. 
Long term changes 
4.59 
In addition to the technical changes identified above, there are also some more strategic 
changes to the rulebook that could be made over the long term. 
4.60 
MiFID currently sets standards for a range of business models. Often the same 
requirements apply to vastly different businesses. For example, suitability rules capture 
a broad range of advice activities. In future, it may be useful to differentiate in our 
requirements according to the business models we see. As part of our work on AGBR, 
we are exploring ways to ensure more support is provided to retail investors but we may 
not seek to make equivalent changes to advice that is delivered to professional clients. 
4.61 
Equally, some very similar business activities are regulated to different standards when 
requirements stem from different directives. Multi-asset funds for example provide 
investors with a diversified pooled investment in a very similar way to a model portfolio 
service (MPS), yet funds and MPS’ are regulated differently. The rules for multi-asset 
funds stem from the UCITS Directive whereas the rules for firms providing non-utilised 
model portfolios stem from MiFID. 
4.62 
In the longer term, we may seek to set requirements for firms depending on the risks 
of harm presented by their business model, rather than a legacy MiFID/non-MiFID 
distinction business. Whilst we have no immediate plans to do so, we are interested 
in views. 
Question 34: Are there any areas where you think sector specific changes 
are needed? If yes, please explain your answer. 
Article 3 MiFID Optional Exemption Firms 
4.63 
Article 3 of MiFID permitted countries to have a differentiated regime for certain firms, 
provided they did not undertake cross border business. We refer to firms subject to this 
alternative regime as Article 3 firms. 



36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.64 
Clearly, whether or not a firm conducts cross border business is a meaningless 
differentiation of firms post UK exit from the EU. 
4.65 
Around 5,300 firms are authorised as Article 3 firms. These are predominantly personal 
investment firms but also include corporate finance and venture capital firms. These 
firms play a critical role in the UK economy, whether helping consumers realise their 
financial goals or sourcing capital for businesses. 
4.66 
FSMA 2023 revoked various assimilated law, including Part 2 of the MiFI Regulations 
imposing restrictions on activities of Article 3 firms, subject to commencement. Alongside 
the Treasury we are considering the policy options arising of the new domestic framework 
and what this might mean for future regulation of Article 3 firms. This may include 
considering the activities they are permitted to carry out in the absence of a single market 
framework, and connected legislative and Handbook amendments 
4.67 
Any changes would be sequenced with the introduction of our replacement rules to 
ensure there is no unintended impact to the authorisation status of relevant firms. 
4.68 
At this point we are not proposing any changes to MiFID derived rules applicable to 
Article 3 firms. However, as part of our request for feedback on how we can rationalise or 
improve our rules (as discussed earlier in this chapter), we particularly welcome feedback 
from Article 3 firms. To help facilitate Article 3 firms’ consideration of the current 
framework, we describe below the background to Article 3 and the implications of being 
an Article 3 firm in relation to MiFID derived rules. 
4.69 
This section of the Discussion Chapter describes the background to Article 3 and the 
implications of being an Article 3 firm in relation to MiFID derived rules. This detail is 
provided to help firms consider how well the current framework and rules work for 
Article 3 firms, and whether improvements could be made. In particular, to reduce 
complexity or to ensure that Article 3 firms have flexible requirements that are 
proportionate to the potential for harm that could arise from their activities. As set out 
in 4.8-4.11 we will use feedback from firms to help shape our approach to rule-making 
under the new regulatory framework and help determine prioritisation. 
4.70 
Article 3 authorisation has a range of other implications beyond application of MiFID 
derived rules. For example, Article 3 firms are subject to different prudential treatment 
than MiFID investment firms. In CP23/24 Capital deduction for Redress: personal 
investment firms (published in November 2023), we discussed broader improvements to 
the prudential regime for personal investment firms (many of which are Article 3 firms) 
to meet our operational objectives. Any proposed improvements to the prudential 
regime will be subject to future consultation. 



37  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Background to Article 3 optional exemption 
4.71 
MiFID established the conditions under which authorised investment firms could provide 
specified services throughout the Union, either on a cross-border basis from their home 
state, or by establishing branches in other EU member states. 
4.72 
To ensure consistent standards and a level playing field, MiFID harmonised (and 
strengthened) the authorisation and operating requirements for investment firms. To 
avoid unwarranted burden on firms that conducted limited activity and did not intend to 
offer services outside their own country, Article 3 of MiFID allowed Member States the 
option to exempt such firms from certain EU legislation, subject to certain conditions. 
4.73 
In taking up the MiFID Article 3 optional exemption, the UK added an option for firms 
eligible for the Article 3 regime to opt-in to full MiFID investment firm authorisation. 
4.74 
Adopting Article 3 allowed the FCA to exclude Article 3 firms from the definition 
of ‘MiFID Investment Firm’ and therefore from the scope of the CRD and other EU 
prudential regulation. This was important because at the time EU prudential regulation 
implemented Basel for banks and was not fully tailored to reflect the nature of (non­
bank) firms that carried out investment business. However, this is no longer the case 
and there is now a separate prudential regime designed for firms that do investment 
business. 
4.75 
The UK approach also allowed firms to opt-in to get the benefits of a MiFID investment 
firm i.e. permission to conduct a wider range of services and passporting to provide 
services throughout the EU. Opting in however required firms to comply with EU derived 
prudential rules, which FCA was unable to tailor to the risk profile of these firms. Again, 
this is now no longer the case as FCA is free to tailor the separate prudential regime 
it has designed for firms doing MiFID investment business (subject to any obligations 
under Part 9C of FSMA). 
Article 3 conditions 
4.76 
The Article 3 option was subject to conditions that the member states taking it up 
would: 
• 
Impose certain restrictions on the activity Article 3 firms could conduct (‘activity 
restrictions’), and 
• 
Ensure these firms are subject to domestic requirements that are ‘at least 
analogous’ to requirements specified in Article 3(2)(a) to (c) of MiFID II (‘analogous 
requirements’). 



38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Activity restrictions 
4.77 
The Article 3 activity restrictions, and the ability to apply for authorisation subject to 
these restrictions, were given effect in Part 2 of the The Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000 (Markets in Financial Instruments) Regulations 2017 (MiFI Regs). 
4.78 
Regulation 6 of the MiFI Regs restricts Article 3 firms from: 
• 
Providing MiFID services other than advising and arranging type services, and in 
relation to transferable securities and units in collective investment undertakings only 
• 
Transmitting orders other than to MiFID firms, UK banks, branches of similarly 
regulated third country firms, UK authorised collective investment undertakings or 
UK or European Economic Area (EEA) listed investment companies (eg investment 
trust companies) 
• 
Holding client funds or assets or placing themselves in debit with their clients 
Analogous requirements 
4.79 
The FCA used its rule making powers to meet the condition that Article 3 firms be 
subject to at least analogous authorisation, conduct and operating conditions as those 
in MiFID. The list of analogous requirements is, in reality, a fairly comprehensive list of 
the MiFID requirements that would be applicable to MiFID firms conducting the limited 
services Article 3 firms are permitted to provide, but not the whole list. 
4.80 
FCA interpreted ‘at least analogous’ to mean that the domestic requirements applied to 
Article 3 firms must achieve the same effect as, and be substantially similar, to each of 
the analogous requirements and their corresponding implementing measures. The FCA 
did however consider it had discretion to apply a degree of flexibility in how certain of the 
analogous requirements were applied if needed as set out in CP16/19. 
4.81 
The effect of the analogous requirements condition is that there are very few 
distinctions between the conduct and organisational requirements MiFID firms are 
subject to and those that Article 3 firms are subject to. 
4.82 
For illustration, the following is a summary of where the rules derived from MiFID differ 
in application to Article 3 firms. Greater differences in the treatment of Article 3 firms 
exist in other areas of FCA rules, in particular in relation to prudential treatment and 
authorisations. We plan to engage with firms in more detail on these topics in due 
course in separate consultations. 



39  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Differences in application of MiFID derived rules for Article 3 firms 
Telephone taping 
SYSC 10A.1.9 allows Article 3 firms that provide services solely, or mainly, to retail 
clients to meet the MiFID telephone taping requirements by retaining a written 
note. This difference is an example of where FCA used its discretion in how Article 
3 firms can meet the MiFID requirement. Discretion was given because Article 3 
personal investment firms tend to be small and the cost of installing telephone 
taping technology was considered disproportionate for such firms. We do not 
propose to change this approach. 
Client categorisation 
COBS 3.5.3R (2) requires MiFID firms to include specified quantitative criteria when 
conducting an assessment of whether retail clients (other than local authorities) can 
be opted up to elective professional categorisation. This rule is not extended to non-
MiFID firms, including Article 3 firms. Article 3 and other non-MiFID firms are subject 
to the qualitative test requiring them to undertake an assessment of the client’s 
expertise, experience and knowledge which is adequate to give them a reasonable 
assurance that the client is capable of making their own investment decisions. 
COBS 3.5.2R sets out the fixed list of entity types that can be categorised as a per 
se professional client. The conditions a large undertaking must meet to be treated 
as per se professional by non MiFID firms, including Article 3 firms, are different to 
the conditions a large undertaking must meet when dealing with MiFID firms. 
COBS 3.6.4R sets some additional conditions which non-MiFID firms, including 
Article 3 firms, must meet before accepting a client’s request to opt up to eligible 
counterparty. 
Each of these rules are examples of rules in relation to which the UK was not 
required to apply at least analogous requirements. The FCA was therefore not 
obliged to extend them to Article 3 firms and took the view that the risk benefit 
analysis did not justify doing so. 
We discuss in more detail in paragraph 4.27 above whether the client categorisation 
rules are an example of rules which could benefit from review, to ensure they work as 
well as they should for all types of firms and clients. 
Record keeping 
COBS 11.5A relates to record keeping for transactions and orders. Article 3 firms 
conducting corporate finance business are excluded from the scope of this rule 
because they generally only take orders in shares of private companies. This is an 
example of where the FCA used its discretion to exclude a specific subgroup of 
Article 3 firms from the scope of a particular rule, even though the rule was on the 



40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
list of analogous requirements, because that subgroup of firms do not conduct the 
type of activity to which the rule relates. 
Knowledge and competence 
SYSC 5.1.5AAR and SYSC 5.1.5ABR, relating to knowledge and competence 
requirements, do not apply to Article 3 firms. This is an example of where FCA used 
discretion to determine that existing domestic rules, in this case the FCA’s Senior 
Managers and Certification Regime (SMCR) competent employees rules and 
the detailed professionalism requirements applicable for certain retail activities, 
impose an analogous standard to the MiFID requirement. 
Communications with ECPs 
COBS 4.2.1R requires MiFID firms to communicate with ECPs in a way that is 
fair, clear and not misleading. This rule is not extended to Article 3 firms. This is 
another example of where FCA used discretion to determine that existing FCA 
requirements, in this case FCA Principle 7, impose an analogous requirement. 
Systems and Controls rules 
Certain systems and controls rules derived from MiFID, which were not on the 
list of analogous requirements, are applied to Article 3 firms as guidance rather 
than rules. This is an example of where FCA has applied proportionality given the 
majority of Article 3 firms are smaller businesses. 
4.83 
As illustrated above, there is limited practical difference in the application of MiFID II 
derived rules for Article 3 firms. However, the need to distinguish Article 3 authorised 
firms has resulted in drafting complexity in the Handbook. In future we propose to 
remove distinctions in our rules for MiFID and non-MiFID firms if there is no material 
difference in the obligations. 
Question 35: To the extent not already raised in your response to the 
Consumer Duty CFI, are there any MiFID derived rules, 
that we should consider tailoring differently for Article 3 
firms? Are there any improvements we could make to our 
Handbook to make it easier for Article 3 firms to navigate? 
Question 36: In the event of future reform, would you plan to take 
advantage of any removal of the activity restrictions 
to offer more services to your clients? What, if any, 
proportionality would need to be added to any current rules 
relating to these additional activities to better tailor them 
to the risks presented by your business? 



41  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex 1 
Questions in this paper 
Question 1: 
Do you agree with our approach to restating obligations 
from the MiFID Org Reg into our Handbook? 
[Agree, neutral, disagree] 
Please explain your answer 
Question 2: 
Do you agree with our approach to maintain recitals as 
guidance, and remove references to the MiFID Org Reg 
where we have replicated the recital in full previously? 
[Agree, neutral, disagree] 
Please explain your answer 
Question 3: 
Do you agree with our proposed changes to SYSC? 
[Agree, neutral, disagree] 
Please explain your answer 
Question 4: 
Do you agree with our proposed changes to COBS? 
[Agree, neutral, disagree] 
Please explain your answer 
Question 5: 
Do you agree with our proposed changes to MAR? 
[Agree, neutral, disagree] 
Please explain your answer 
Question 6: 
Do you agree with our proposed changes to REC? 
[Agree, neutral, disagree] 
Please explain your answer 
Question 7: 
Do you agree with our proposals to change DISP? 
[Agree, neutral, disagree] 
Please explain your answer 
Question 8: 
Do you agree with the Financial Ombudsman’s proposal 
to mirror the FCA’s proposed changes to DISP into its 
voluntary jurisdiction? 
[Agree, neutral, disagree] 
Please explain your answer 



42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 9: 
Do you agree with the Financial Ombudsman’s proposal to 
adopt the FCA’s proposed changes to the Glossary into its 
scheme rules where those Glossary definitions are used in 
the FOS scheme rules? 
[Agree, neutral disagree] 
Please explain your answer 
Question 10: Are there any inconsistencies in the derivations table that 
might affect your compliance or understanding of the 
changes? Yes/No 
Please explain your answer 
Question 11: 
Do you agree with our proposed approach to the future 
of each provision of the MiFID Org Reg as outlined in the 
derivations table in Annex 4? 
[agree, neutral, disagree] 
Please explain your answer 
Question 12: 
Are there any provisions not currently proposed for 
restatement in the Handbook that you think should be 
included? [Yes,no, if yes please specify which provision] 
Please explain your answer 
Question 13: 
Do any of our proposed changes amount to a change in the 
scope or application of a provision? 
[Yes,no, if yes please specify which provision] 
Question 14: 
Are the provisions in the legal instrument clearly aligned 
with the policy objectives outlined in this consultation 
paper? Please highlight any areas requiring clarification. 
Yes/No 
Please explain your answer 
Question 15: 
Do you agree with our decision not to include a CBA in this 
consultation paper? [agree, neutral, disagree] 
Please explain your answer 
Question 16: 
Do you agree with our proposed approach to the 
application of rights of action under section 138D of 
FSMA? [Agree, neutral, disagree] 
Please explain your answer 
Question 17: 
Please provide any other feedback on this Consultation 
Paper 



43  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 18: 
Are there any specific rules that are challenging to 
navigate or apply to any particular type of firm or 
activities? Do any of our rules (or related level 3 or 
other FCA materials) impose operational costs or other 
disadvantages that are disproportionate to the client 
protection they provide? 
If so, please state which rules and why 
Question 19: 
Do any MiFID derived conduct or organisational rules 
create challenges in their interaction with other FCA rules 
or international standards? 
Question 20: What are the likely benefits of any rationalisation or 
improvements you would propose, for example reduced 
compliance costs or improved competition? 
Question 21: 
Do you agree that it would benefit firms to rationalise 
SYSC 10? 
Question 22: 
What differences between conflicts rules for different 
types of activity do you think need to be maintained in a 
rationalised SYSC 10? 
Question 23: 
Do you agree that it would be beneficial to rationalise 
these requirements? 
Question 24: 
Do you have any specific suggestions for which disclosure 
requirements could be rationalised? This does not include 
CCIs. [If yes, please explain your answer, including which 
disclosure requirements should be prioritised for review, 
and why.] 
Question 25: 
Do firms that act on behalf of clients tend to request to 
opt down to professional status? Should such firms be 
removed from the list of entities that can be treated as 
per se ECP? Would this help clearer calibration of client 
protection rules? 
Question 26: 
Could the per se categories be simplified in other ways, 
eg, replacing different types of authorised firm listed 
separately with ‘authorised person’? Or harmonising the 
differences in certain thresholds within the wholesale 
categories which differ for MiFID and non-MiFID business? 
Question 27: 
How important is it to your clients to have the ability to 
opt up to professional client status? What are the benefits 
to clients of opting up eg is there a cost saving from lower 
fees and /or better pricing? 



44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 28: Do you think we should change our rules in relation to 
opting clients up to professional status? If yes, would 
you support any of the approaches suggested above, 
or a combination of these? Are there any alternative 
approaches you would suggest? 
Question 29: Where possible, please quantify the effect changes would 
have. For example, estimate the additional potential 
investment in UK capital markets from certain client 
groups as a result of any proposed change in the opt up 
rules. 
Question 30: In what circumstances do clients opt up to be treated as 
elective professionals for the purpose of exemption from 
certain financial promotion rules only? 
Question 31: 
To what extent do firms treat corporate finance contacts 
as elective professional clients for the purpose of 
complying with the financial promotion rules? 
Question 32: 
How do firms navigate the process of opting up while 
ensuring that contacts are not under the impression that 
they are receiving a service in the relation to a designated 
investments (and related protections) from the firm? 
Question 33: 
To the extent you rely on the venture capital contacts 
regime, please provide answers to the questions we have 
asked for corporate finance contacts. 
Question 34: 
Are there any areas where you think sector specific 
changes are needed? If yes, please explain your answer. 
Question 35: 
To the extent not already raised in your response to the 
Consumer Duty CFI, are there any MiFID derived rules, 
that we should consider tailoring differently for Article 3 
firms? Are there any improvements we could make to our 
Handbook to make it easier for Article 3 firms to navigate? 
Question 36: 
In the event of future reform, would you plan to take 
advantage of any removal of the activity restrictions 
to offer more services to your clients? What, if any, 
proportionality would need to be added to any current 
rules relating to these additional activities to better tailor 
them to the risks presented by your business? 



45  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex 2 
Cost benefit analysis 
Introduction 
1. 
FSMA, as amended by the Financial Services Act 2012, requires us to publish a CBA of 
our proposed rules. Specifically, section 138I requires us to publish a CBA of proposed 
rules, defined as ‘an analysis of the costs, together with an analysis of the benefits that 
will arise if the proposed rules are made’. However, under section 138L(3) we are not 
required to publish a CBA if, in making the appropriate comparison, we consider either 
there will be no increase in costs or the increase in costs will be of minimal significance. 
2. 
The rules we are proposing are intended to replicate the relevant requirements in 
the MiFID Org Reg once these have been repealed. As these rules maintain existing 
requirements which already apply to firms, we do not consider there will be any increase 
in ongoing compliance costs above those which exist currently. Firms may incur some 
one-off costs in familiarising themselves with the proposed changes but given our 
stated approach of replicating existing requirements, we consider these costs will be of 
minimal significance and are proportionate to the outcome we are looking to achieve. 



46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex 3 
Compatibility statement 
Compliance with legal requirements 
1. 
This Annex records the FCA’s compliance with a number of legal requirements 
applicable to the proposals in this consultation, including an explanation of the FCA’s 
reasons for concluding that our proposals in this consultation are compatible with 
certain requirements under FSMA. 
2. 
When consulting on new rules, the FCA is required by section 138I(2)(d) FSMA to 
include an explanation of why it believes making the proposed rules (a) is compatible 
with its general duty, under section 1B(1) FSMA, so far as reasonably possible, to act 
in a way which is compatible with its strategic objective and advances one or more of 
its operational objectives, (b) so far as reasonably possible, advances the secondary 
international competitiveness and growth objective, under section 1B(4A) FSMA, and 
(c) complies with its general duty under section 1B(5)(a) FSMA to have regard to the 
regulatory principles in section 3B FSMA. The FCA is also required by section 138K(2) 
FSMA to state its opinion on whether the proposed rules will have a significantly 
different impact on mutual societies as opposed to other authorised persons. 
3. 
This Annex also sets out the FCA’s view of how the proposed rules are compatible with 
the duty on the FCA to discharge its general functions (which include rule-making) in a 
way which promotes effective competition in the interests of consumers (section 1B(4)). 
This duty applies in so far as promoting competition is compatible with advancing the 
FCA’s consumer protection and/or integrity objectives. 
4. 
In addition, this Annex explains how we have considered the recommendations made 
by the Treasury under section 1JA FSMA about aspects of the economic policy of His 
Majesty’s Government to which we should have regard in connection with our general 
duties. 
5. 
This Annex includes our assessment of the equality and diversity implications of these 
proposals. 
6. 
Under the Legislative and Regulatory Reform Act 2006 (LRRA) the FCA is subject to 
requirements to have regard to a number of high-level ‘Principles’ in the exercise of 
some of our regulatory functions and to have regard to a ‘Regulators’ Code’ when 
determining general policies and principles and giving general guidance (but not when 
exercising other legislative functions like making rules). This Annex sets out how we have 
complied with requirements under the LRRA. 



47  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The FCA’s objectives and regulatory principles: Compatibility 
statement 
7. 
The proposals set out in this consultation are primarily intended to maintain the 
consistency of the regulatory framework with no policy changes in terms of content 
and/or scope. Although no substantive policy changes are proposed, replacing the 
repealed firm-facing obligations in assimilated law will advance the FCA’s objectives 
or securing an appropriate degree of protection for consumers and protecting and 
enhancing the integrity of the UK financial system. Our proposals are also relevant to 
the FCA’s commitment to strengthen the UK’s position in global wholesale markets. 
8. 
To ensure the MiFID Org Reg rules address potential harms to consumers, and the ability 
of certain firms to meet redress liabilities as they arise such as personal investment 
firms, over the long term we will want to adapt the obligations to better suit the activities 
and risks of different business models. 
9. 
Such reforms require careful balance and coordination across other policy and areas 
of assimilated law. At this stage, we propose to focus on simply restating the firm-
facing obligations into our rules without policy changes, as a crucial first phase. This 
will then enable us to conduct longer term work in a second phase, which will focus on 
harmonising, simplifying and rationalising the requirements. 
10. 
We consider these proposals are compatible with the FCA’s secondary international 
competitiveness and growth objective (SICGO). The proposals do not introduce new 
requirements on firms, nor remove existing requirements Together with our proposals 
for future rationalisation, and seeking early stakeholder input, this provides continuity of 
the regulatory regime applying to firms which are subject to the requirements, whether 
directly under the MiFID Org Reg, or through our rules, that will maintain a proportionate 
regulatory regime and ensure stability. The proposed consequential amendments and 
drafting style edits will ensure clarity and consistency with the wider Handbook. 
11. 
The development of the policy content set out in this CP was started and completed 
before 15 November, before HMT issued a new set of recommendations about aspects 
of the Government’s policy to which the FCA should have regard in a remit letter under 
section 1JA FSMA 2000. In developing our proposals, the FCA has regard to the new 
remit letter, and our initial view is that the intended effects of the proposals are in line 
with the new recommendations. The recommendations include promoting growth 
and international competitiveness in the financial services sector and improving the 
regulatory experience for firms while maintaining consumer protection and financial 
stability. Restating the assimilated MiFID Org Reg provisions into the FCA Handbook 
and consulting on our intentions for the future regime will allow us to tailor our rules 
to better suit the UK market and promote the growth and competitiveness of the 
financial services sector going forward. Our discussion chapter on opportunities for 
simplification and rationalisation of FCA rules derived from various EU legislation, 
provides a first step in seeking to improve the regulatory framework for firms. However, 
we will consider these matters further and continue to have regard to the new remit 
letter when finalising and making the rules. 



48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12. 
We consider these proposals are compatible with the FCA’s strategic objective of 
ensuring that the relevant markets function well because they maintain existing 
regulatory requirements which are currently in assimilated law and which are being 
repealed and, thereafter, enable us to make changes to those rules in the future to 
ensure that the rules applying to investment business are effectively calibrated by 
reference to our objectives. 
13. 
In preparing the proposals set out in this consultation, the FCA has had regard to the 
regulatory principles set out in section 3B FSMA. Not all of these regulatory principles 
are relevant to the proposals. We cover the most relevant of the principles below. 
The need to use our resources in the most efficient and 
economic way 
14. 
Having all these requirements (along with other MiFID derived requirements from 
assimilated law) in the FCA Handbook will give us the ability to refine our approach across 
the full range of investments firms, enabling a longer-term vision which will include 
addressing any emerging priorities. 
The principle that a burden or restriction should be 
proportionate to the benefits 
15. 
We seek to restate the directly applicable MiFID Org Reg requirements into Handbook 
rules, in a way that maintains the status quo for firms, and neither increases nor 
decreases the burden on them. 
The principle that we should exercise of our functions as transparently 
as possible 
16. 
We will continue to engage with stakeholders throughout the consultation process, 
before making any rules. 
17. 
In formulating these proposals, the FCA has had regard to the importance of taking 
action intended to minimise the extent to which it is possible for a business carried on 
(i) by an authorised person or a recognised investment exchange; or (ii) in contravention 
of the general prohibition, to be used for a purpose connected with financial crime (as 
required by section 1B(5)(b) FSMA). As our short-term outcome is no change to the 
status quo, we do not expect any financial crime impact. 
Expected effect on mutual societies 
18. 
The FCA does not expect the proposals in this paper to have a significantly different 
impact on mutual societies, as there is intended to be minimal or no policy changes. 



49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Compatibility with the duty to promote effective competition 
in the interests of consumers 
19. 
In preparing the proposals as set out in this consultation, we have had regard to the 
FCA’s duty to promote effective competition in the interests of consumers. Our 
proposals seek to maintain the existing regime. 
LRRA 
20. 
We have had regard to the principles in the LRRA for the parts of the proposals that 
consist of general policies, principles or guidance and consider that they are: 
• 
transparent 
• 
accountable 
• 
proportionate 
• 
consistent and 
• 
targeted only at cases in which action is needed 
21. 
We have had regard to the Regulators’ Code for the parts of the proposals that consist 
of general policies, principles or guidance and consider the proposals are proportionate 
to the potential harm to consumers or risks to our statutory objectives identified. 
Materiality 
22. 
This section explains why we consider that the proposed changes to our rules and 
guidance in SYSC 19G (MiFIDPRU Remuneration Code) and MiFIDPRU 7 (Governance 
and risk management) made under Part 9C of FSMA are not material under section 143I 
of FSMA. This statement does not apply to those rules that have been made under our 
general FSMA rule-making powers. 
23. 
In our opinion, the proposed changes to our existing Part 9C rules identified in the 
preceding paragraph are not material under sections: 
• 
143G(1) of FSMA – because we consider that they do not affect standards set by 
an international body 
• 
143I(3) and (5) of FSMA – because they do not affect relevant equivalence 
decisions 
24. 
More generally, we do not consider that they materially change any risks to consumers, 
the market or the UK financial system arising from FCA investment firms. 
25. 
Our proposed changes consist of replacing cross-references to the MiFID Org 
Regulation in SYSC 19G and MiFIDPRU 7 with the corresponding proposed new 
provisions in SYSC. In our opinion, the proposed changes are consequential in nature 
and we do not consider that they will impose substantive new obligations on firms or 
parent entities and therefore we do not expect them to increase the operational burden. 



50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
26. 
When we made the original rules in PS 21/17, we considered the application of our duties 
under Part 9C of FSMA at that time and explained how we considered that our rules 
discharged those duties. We consider that the minor amendments to SYSC 19G and 
MiFIDPRU 7 proposed in this CP would not materially change our approach to monitoring 
and supervising the relevant underlying risks. 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex 4 
Derivation and Changes Table 
1. 
The origin of the MiFID Org Reg as a directly applicable EU regulation meant that, for the firms and services or activities it covered, 
where the regulation was replicated in our Handbook this was with the abbreviation ‘EU’ at the start of the provision (becoming a ‘UK’ 
abbreviation after the EU withdrawal implementation period). These abbreviations will be removed and requirements in these provisions 
reproduced in Handbook rules underpinned by Glossary definitions and application provisions sitting within an existing Handbook 
structure (which also applies corresponding requirements to firms besides MiFID investment firms, in accordance with Handbook 
drafting style (HDS)). 
2. 
Provisions that we are not replacing in regulatory rules will either be restated or repealed by Treasury, at the time where our Handbook 
rules are ready to come into force. Treasury will publish a draft Statutory Instrument to propose these changes. 
3. 
There may be further consequential changes to references in our Handbook based on the Treasury SI. For example, updating Glossary 
definitions in our Handbook. These changes will not amount to a policy change. 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Article A1 
Application 
Art A1 
Not restated 
Application 
The application of each provision deriving from the 
MiFID Org Reg is reflected in the application sections 
for each of the relevant sourcebooks where they are 
proposed to be incorporated. Glossary definitions 
including “MiFID investment firm”, “common platform 
firm” and “UK RIE” further enable the replacing of 
MiFID Org Reg provisions in corresponding Handbook 
provisions 
51 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Article 1 
Subject-matter and scope 
Art 1(1) 
Not restated 
Subject-matter and scope: 
management companies 
The application of each provision deriving from the 
MiFID Org Reg is reflected in the application sections 
for each of the relevant sourcebooks where they are 
proposed to be incorporated. Glossary definitions 
including “MiFID investment firm”, which incorporates 
a collective portfolio management investment 
firm further enable the replacing of MiFID Org Reg 
provisions in corresponding Handbook provisions 
Art 1(1A) 
Not restated 
Subject-matter and scope: 
management companies 
See commentary for Article 1(1) 
Art 1(2) 
Not restated 
Subject-matter and scope: 
management companies 
See commentary for Article 1(1) 
Art 1(3) 
Not restated 
Firms with temporary permissions 
Not restated as the concept of ‘relevant firm’ is already 
subsumed within the existing Glossary definition of “TP 
firm” 
Art 1(4) 
Not restated 
Firms with temporary permissions 
No longer applicable 
Art 1(5) 
GEN 2.2.26R(3) and (4), SYSC 
1 Annex 1, DISP 1.1.3R(-1), 
COBS 1 Annex 2 
Firms with temporary permissions 
Reflected in the application of the relevant FCA 
sourcebooks where the provisions are incorporated 
and the Glossary terms used within these, with no 
policy change or change in scope 
Art 1(6) 
Not restated 
Firms with temporary permissions 
Not restated as the concept of ‘relevant firm’ is already 
subsumed within the existing Glossary definition of “TP 
firm” 
Article 2 
Definitions 
Art 2(1) 
Existing definition of ‘relevant 
person’ in Glossary 
Definition of relevant person 
No restatement into FCA Handbook necessary as this 
is an existing definition. No drafting changes except 
removal of the note 
52 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 2(2) 
Existing definition of ‘financial 
analyst’ in Glossary 
Definition of financial analyst 
No restatement into FCA Handbook necessary as this 
is an existing definition. No drafting changes except 
removal of the note 
Art 2(3) 
Existing definition of 
‘outsourcing’ in Glossary 
Definition of outsourcing 
No restatement into FCA Handbook necessary as this 
is an existing definition. No drafting changes except 
removal of the note 
Art 2(3a) 
Already within the existing 
definition of “personal 
transaction” in the Glossary 
of definitions 
Definition of person with whom 
a relevant person had a family 
relationship 
No restatement into FCA Handbook necessary as this 
is already subsumed within the Glossary definition of 
‘personal transaction’. It is not used in any MiFID Org 
Reg or in any other Glossary definitions so does not 
need to be a free-standing definition. No drafting 
changes except removal of the reference to MiFID Org 
Reg 
Art 2(4) 
Existing definition of 
‘securities financing 
transaction’ in Glossary 
securities financing transaction 
No restatement into FCA Handbook necessary as this 
is an existing definition. Only drafting changes are to 
replace references to assimilated law with references 
to UK legislation and to apply the relevant part of the 
definition to the relevant parts of the Handbook 
Art 2(5) 
Existing definition of 
‘remuneration’ in Glossary 
remuneration 
No restatement into FCA Handbook necessary as this 
is an existing definition. No drafting changes except to 
apply the relevant part of the definition to the relevant 
parts of the Handbook 
… 
… 
… 
… 
Art 2(7) 
Existing definition of 
‘portfolio management’ in 
Glossary 
portfolio management 
No restatement into FCA Handbook necessary as this 
is already an existing definition 
Art 2(8) 
Existing definition of ‘retail 
client’ in Glossary 
retail client 
No restatement into FCA Handbook necessary as this 
is already an existing definition 
Art 2(9) 
Existing definition of ‘limit 
order’ in Glossary 
limit order 
No restatement into FCA Handbook necessary as this 
is already an existing definition 
53 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 2(10) 
Existing definition of 
‘management company’ in 
Glossary 
management company 
No restatement into FCA Handbook necessary as this 
is already an existing definition 
Art 2(11) 
Existing definition of ‘tied 
agent’ in Glossary 
tied agent 
No restatement into FCA Handbook necessary as this 
is already an existing definition 
Art 2(12) 
Existing definition of ‘group’ in 
Glossary 
group 
No restatement into FCA Handbook necessary as this 
is already an existing definition 
Art 2(13) 
Existing definition of ‘durable 
medium’ in Glossary 
durable medium 
No restatement into FCA Handbook necessary as this 
is already an existing definition 
Art 2(14) 
Not restated 
References to FCA sourcebooks 
No longer needed so not restated 
Art 2(15) 
Not restated 
References to PRA sourcebooks 
Not needed for FCA purposes so not restated into FCA 
Handbook 
Art 2(16) 
New definition of ‘UK law 
on markets in financial 
instruments’ in Glossary 
UK law on markets in financial 
instruments 
Restated into Glossary of definitions with references to 
assimilated law replaced by references to UK legislation 
Art 2(16A) 
New definition of ‘Directive 
2013/36/EU UK law’ in 
Glossary 
Directive 2013/36/EU UK law 
Restated into Glossary of definitions 
Art 2(16B) 
New definition of ‘Part 9C 
rules’ in Glossary 
Part 9C rules 
Restated into to Glossary of definitions 
Art 2(16C) 
Already within the existing 
definition of “UK CRR” in the 
Glossary 
CRR rules 
No restatement into FCA Handbook necessary as this 
is already subsumed within the existing definition ‘UK 
CRR’. It is not used in any MiFID Org Reg or in any other 
Glossary definitions so does not need to be a free­
standing definition 
Art 2(17) 
No longer needed 
Meaning of expressions used to be 
the same as in MiFIR, MiFI Regs and 
Data Reporting Service Provider 
Regs (DRSP) 
Not needed as terms used in provisions are given the 
relevant meanings through the FCA Glossary 
54 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 3 
Conditions applying to the 
provision of information 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 3(1) 
Existing definition of 'durable 
durable medium 
No restatement into FCA Handbook necessary as this 
medium' in Glossary 
is already an existing definition. Drafting changes are 
to reflect the version of the definition as it currently 
appears in the MiFID Org Regulation 
Art 3(1)(a) 
Existing definition of 'durable 
durable medium 
No restatement into FCA Handbook necessary as this 
medium' in Glossary 
is already an existing definition. Drafting changes are 
to reflect the version of the definition as it currently 
appears in the MiFID Org Regulation 
Art 3(1)(b) 
Existing definition of 'durable 
durable medium 
No restatement into FCA Handbook necessary as this 
medium' in Glossary 
is already an existing definition. Drafting changes are 
to reflect the version of the definition as it currently 
appears in the MiFID Org Regulation 
Art 3(1A) 
Existing definition of 'durable 
durable medium 
No restatement into FCA Handbook necessary as this 
medium' in Glossary 
is already an existing definition. Drafting changes are 
to reflect the version of the definition as it currently 
appears in the MiFID Org Regulation 
Art 3(1B) 
Existing definition of 'durable 
durable medium 
No restatement into FCA Handbook necessary as this 
medium' in Glossary 
is already an existing definition. Drafting changes are 
to reflect the version of the definition as it currently 
appears in the MiFID Org Regulation 
Art 3(2) 
Existing definition of 'website 
website conditions 
No restatement into FCA Handbook necessary as this 
conditions' in Glossary 
is already an existing definition. Minor drafting changes 
only 
Art 3(2)(a) 
Existing definition of 'website 
website conditions 
No restatement into FCA Handbook necessary as this 
conditions' in Glossary 
is already an existing definition. Minor drafting changes 
only 
55 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 3(2)(b) 
Existing definition of 'website 
conditions' in Glossary 
website conditions 
No restatement into FCA Handbook necessary as this 
is already an existing definition. Minor drafting changes 
only 
Art 3(2)(c) 
Existing definition of 'website 
conditions' in Glossary 
website conditions 
No restatement into FCA Handbook necessary as this 
is already an existing definition. Minor drafting changes 
only 
Art 3(2)(d) 
Existing definition of 'website 
conditions' in Glossary 
website conditions 
No restatement into FCA Handbook necessary as this 
is already an existing definition. Minor drafting changes 
only 
Art 3(2)(e) 
Existing definition of 'website 
conditions' in Glossary 
website conditions 
No restatement into FCA Handbook necessary as this 
is already an existing definition. Minor drafting changes 
only 
Art 3(3) 
Existing definition of 'website 
conditions' in Glossary 
website conditions 
No restatement into FCA Handbook necessary as this 
is already an existing definition. Minor drafting changes 
only 
Article 4 
Provision of investment 
service in an incidental 
manner 
Art 4 
Not restated into FCA 
Handbook 
Provision of investment service in 
an incidental manner 
This relates to the FCA perimeter. It is already in the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated 
Activities) Order 2001 (“RAO”) so does not need to be 
restated 
Article 5 
Wholesale energy products 
that must be physically 
settled 
Art 5 
Not restated into FCA 
Handbook 
Wholesale energy products that 
must be physically settled 
This relates to the FCA perimeter. It is already in the 
RAO so does not need to be restated 
56 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Article 6 
Energy derivative contracts 
relating to oil and coal and 
wholesale energy products 
Art 6 
Not restated into FCA 
Handbook 
Energy derivative contracts relating 
to oil and coal and wholesale energy 
products 
This relates to the FCA perimeter. It is already in the 
RAO so does not need to be restated 
Article 7 
Other derivative financial 
instruments 
Art 7 
Not restated into FCA 
Handbook 
Other derivative financial 
instruments 
This relates to the FCA perimeter. It is already in the 
RAO so does not need to be restated 
Article 8 
Derivatives under 
paragraph 10 of Part 1 of 
Schedule 2 to the Regulated 
Activities Order 
Art 8 
Not restated into FCA 
Handbook 
Derivatives under paragraph 10 
of Part 1 of Schedule 2 to the 
Regulated Activities Order 
This relates to the FCA perimeter. It is already in the 
RAO so does not need to be restated 
Article 9 
Investment advice 
Art 9 
Not restated into FCA 
Handbook 
Investment advice 
This relates to the FCA perimeter. It is already in the 
RAO so does not need to be restated 
Article 10 
Characteristics of other 
derivative contracts 
relating to currencies 
Art 10 
Not restated into FCA 
Handbook 
Characteristics of other derivative 
contracts relating to currencies 
This relates to the FCA perimeter. It is already in the 
RAO so does not need to be restated 
Article 11 
Money-market instruments 
Art 11 
Not restated into FCA 
Handbook 
Money-market instruments 
This relates to the FCA perimeter. It is already in the 
RAO so does not need to be restated 
57 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Article 12 
Systematic internalisers for 
shares, depositary receipts, 
ETFs, certificates and other 
similar financial instruments 
Art 12 
Not restated into FCA 
Handbook 
Assimilated law to be revoked without restatement 
Article 13 
Systematic internalisers for 
bonds 
Art 13 
Not restated into FCA 
Handbook 
Assimilated law to be revoked without restatement 
Article 14 
Systematic internalisers for 
structured finance products 
Art 14 
Not restated into FCA 
Handbook 
Assimilated law to be revoked without restatement 
Article 15 
Systematic internalisers for 
derivatives 
Art 15 
Not restated into FCA 
Handbook 
Assimilated law to be revoked without restatement 
Article 16 
Systematic internalisers for 
emission allowances 
Art 16 
Not restated into FCA 
Handbook 
Assimilated law to be revoked without restatement 
Article 16ZA 
Transitional period: data for 
calculations 
Art 16ZA 
Not restated into FCA 
Handbook 
Assimilated law to be revoked without restatement 
Article 16a 
Participation in matching 
arrangements 
58 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 16a 
Amendment to existing 
definition within the Glossary 
of definitions 
Meaning of “dealing on own 
account” 
Amendment to existing definition of “dealing on own 
account” in the Glossary to incorporate the meaning 
given in Art 16a. No drafting changes made 
Article 17 
Relevant assessment 
periods 
Art 17 
Not restated into FCA 
Handbook 
Assimilated law to be revoked without restatement 
… 
… 
Article 21 
General organisational 
requirements 
Art 21(1)(a) 
SYSC 4.1.1-AR(a) 
Requirements on decision-making 
procedures and organisational 
structure 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 21(1)(b) 
SYSC 5.1.12R 
Requirements on awareness of 
procedures 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 21(1)(c) 
SYSC 4.1.1-AR(b) 
Requirements on internal control 
mechanisms 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 21(1)(d) 
SYSC 5.1.1R 
Competent employees rule 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 21(1)(e) 
SYSC 4.1.1-AR(c) 
Requirements on internal reporting 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 21(1)(f) 
SYSC 4.1.1-AR(d) 
Requirements on orderly records 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 21(1)(g) 
SYSC 5.1.6R 
Requirements on the segregation 
of functions 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 21(1) last 
paragraph 
SYSC 4.1.1-AR and 5.1.13R 
Proportionality on the application 
of requirements 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only. 
Art 21(2) 
SYSC 4.1.1-AR(2) 
Requirements on the the security, 
integrity and confidentiality of 
information 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only. 
59 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 21(3) 
SYSC 4.1.1-AR(3) 
Requirements on business 
continuity 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only. 
Art 21(4) 
SYSC 4.1.1-AR(4) 
Requirements on accounting 
policies 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only. 
Art 21(5) 
SYSC 4.1.1-AR(5) and 5.1.14R 
Requirements to regular 
monitoring the adequacy of their 
systems and control mechanisms 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only. 
Article 22 
Compliance 
Art 22(1) 
SYSC 6.1.2-AR 
Requirements to establish and 
maintain compliance procedures 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 22(2) 
SYSC 6.1.3-AR 
Requirements establish and 
maintain a permanent and effective 
compliance function 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 22(2)(a) 
SYSC 6.1.3-AR 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 22(2)(b) 
SYSC 6.1.3-AR 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 22(2)(c) 
SYSC 6.1.3-AR 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 22(2)(d) 
SYSC 6.1.3-AR 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 22(2) last 
paragraph 
SYSC 6.1.3-AR 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 22(3) 
SYSC 6.1.4-AAR 
Requirements to discharge the 
responsibilities of the compliance 
function 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 22(3)(a) 
SYSC 6.1.4-AAR 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 22(3)(b) 
SYSC 6.1.4-AAR 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 22(3)(c) 
SYSC 6.1.4-AAR 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 23(3)(d) 
SYSC 6.1.4-AAR 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
60 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 23(3)(e) 
SYSC 6.1.4-AAR 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 23(4) 
SYSC 6.1.5AR 
Proportionality on the application 
of requirements 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 23 
Risk management 
Art 23(1)(a) 
SYSC 7.1.2-AR 
Requirements to establish, 
implement and maintain adequate 
risk management policies 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 23(1)(b) 
SYSC 7.1.3R 
Requirements to adopt effective 
arrangements, processes and 
mechanisms to manage the firms’ 
risks 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 23(1)(c) 
SYSC 7.1.5R 
Requirements to monitor the 
adequacy and effectiveness of the 
investment firm’s risk management 
policies and procedures 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 23(2) first 
paragraph 
SYSC 7.1.6R 
Requirements to establish and 
maintain a risk management 
function 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 23(2)(a) 
SYSC 7.1.6R(1) 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 23(2)(b) 
SYSC 7.1.6R(2) 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 23(2) second 
paragraph 
SYSC 7.1.7R 
Further requirements on risk 
management 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 24 
Internal Audit 
Art 24 
SYSC 6.2.1R 
Requirement to establish and 
maintain an internal audit function 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 25 
Responsibility of Senior 
Management 
61 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 25(1) first 
paragraph 
SYSC 4.3.2-AR(1) 
Requirements on the responsibility 
of senior management 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 25(1) second 
paragraph 
SYSC 4.3.2-AR(2) 
Requirements on the allocation of 
functions 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 25(2) 
SYSC 4.3.2-AR(3) 
Requirements on internal reporting 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 25(3) 
SYSC 4.3.2-AR(3) 
Further requirements on internal 
reporting 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 25(4) 
Glossary definition of 
‘supervisory function’ 
supervisory function 
No restatement into FCA Handbook necessary as this 
is already an existing definition. 
Article 26 
Complaints handling 
Art 26(1) 
DISP 1.1A 12, 13 & 37 
Requirements on establishing and 
maintaining a complaints handling 
policy 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no change 
Art 26(2) 
DISP 1.1A 10 & 16 
Requirements on publishing a 
complaints handling policy 
Restated in FCA Handbook with no change 
Art 26(3) 
DISP 1.1A.17 
Requirements on establishing a 
complaints management function 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no change 
Art 26(4) 
DISP 1.1A 24/29 
Requirements to communicate 
with clients clearly when handling a 
complaint 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no change 
Art 26(5) 
DISP 1.1A 25/30 
Requirements on informing 
consumers with complaints about 
their options 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 26(6) 
DISP 1.1A.38 
Requirements on providing 
information to relevant authorities 
about complaints and complaints 
handling 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no change 
62 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 26(7) 
DISP 1.1A.18 
Requirements on a firm to analyse 
their complaints and complaints 
handling data 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no change 
Article 27 
Remuneration policies and 
practices 
Art 27(1) 
SYSC 19F.1.4AR 
Requirements to define and 
implement remuneration policies 
and practices under appropriate 
internal procedures 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no change 
Art 27(2) 
SYSC 19F.1.4AR 
Requirements to ensure that their 
remuneration policies and practices 
apply to all relevant persons 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no change 
Art 27(3) 
SYSC 19F.1.4AR 
Requirement of senior 
management to approve the 
remuneration policy 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no change 
Art 27(4) 
SYSC 19F.1.4AR 
Further requirements on 
remuneration and similar incentives 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no change 
Article 28 
Scope of personal 
transactions 
Art 28 
Amendment to existing 
definition in the Glossary of 
definitions 
Definition of personal transaction 
Restated into FCA Glossary by amendment to existing 
definition of “personal transaction”. Drafting change 
made to ensure the correct scope of the definition 
applies to the relevant FCA rules. 
Article 29 
Personal transactions 
Art 29(1) 
COBS 11.7A.5R(1) 
Arrangements in relation to 
personal transactions 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 29(2) 
COBS 11.7A.5R(2) 
Arrangements in relation to 
personal transactions 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
63 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 29(3) 
COBS 11.7A.5R(3) 
Arrangements in relation to 
personal transactions 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 29(4) 
COBS 11.7A.5R(4) 
Arrangements in relation to 
personal transactions 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 29(5) 
COBS 11.7A.5R(5) and (5A) 
Arrangements in relation to 
personal transactions 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 29(6) 
COBS 11.7A.2R(3) 
Application 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 30 
Scope of critical importance 
operational functions 
Art 30(1) 
SYSC 8.1.4AR 
Scope of critical importance 
operational functions 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 30(2)(a) 
SYSC 8.1.5R(1) 
Functions not considered as critical 
or important 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 30(2)(b) 
SYSC 8.1.5R(2) 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 31 
Outsourcing of critical 
or important operational 
functions 
Art 31(1) 
SYSC 8.1.6-AR 
Requirements and conditions to 
outsource critical or important 
functions 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 31(2) first 
paragraph [and 
second paragraph] 
SYSC 8.1.7R and SYSC 8.1.8R 
Requirements to exercise due skill, 
care and diligence when entering 
into, managing or terminating any 
arrangement for the outsourcing 
to a service provider of critical or 
important operational functions 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
64 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 31(2)(a) 
SYSC 8.1.8R(1) 
Conditions for the outsourcing 
to a service provider of critical or 
important operational functions 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 31(2)(b) 
SYSC 8.1.8R(2) 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 31(2)(c) 
SYSC 8.1.8R(3) 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 31(2)(d) 
SYSC 8.1.8R(4) 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 31(2)(e) 
SYSC 8.1.8R(5) 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 31(2)(f) 
SYSC 8.1.8R(6) 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 31(2)(g) 
SYSC 8.1.8R(7) 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 31(2)(h) 
SYSC 8.1.8R(8) 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 31(2)(i) 
SYSC 8.1.8R(9) 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 31(2)(j) 
SYSC 8.1.8R(10) 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 31(2)(k) 
SYSC 8.1.8R(11) 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 31(2)(l) 
SYSC 8.1.8R(12) 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 31(3) 
SYSC 8.1.9R 
Requirements on the content of 
the service agreement 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 31(4) 
SYSC 8.1.10R 
Requirements where the 
investment firm and the service 
provider are members of the same 
group 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 31(5) 
SYSC 8.1.11-CR 
Requirements on the availability 
of information for supervisory 
purposes 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 32 
Service providers located in 
third countries 
65 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 32(1)(a) 
SYSC 8.1.11-BR(1) 
Requirements on service providers 
located in third countries 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 32(1)(b) 
SYSC 8.1.11-BR(2) 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 32 (2)(a) 
SYSC 8.1.11-AG(1) 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 32(2)(b) 
SYSC 8.1.11-AG(1) 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 32(2)(c) 
SYSC 8.1.11-AG(1) 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 32 (2)(d) 
SYSC 8.1.11-AG(1) 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 32 (3) 
SYSC 8.1.11-AG(2) 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 33 
Conflicts of interest 
potentially detrimental to a 
client 
Art 33 
SYSC 10.1.4R 
Requirements on the identification 
of types of conflicts 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 34 
Conflicts of interest policy 
Art 34(1) 
SYSC 10.1.10R 
Requirement to establish, 
implement and maintain an 
effective conflicts of interest policy 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 34(2)(3) 
SYSC 10.1.11R 
Requirements on the content of 
the conflicts of interest policy 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 34(4) 
SYSC 10.1.8R and 10.1.9AR 
Requirements to prevent or 
manage conflicts of interest 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 34(5) 
SYSC 10.1.11AAR 
Requirements on the review of the 
conflicts of interest policy 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 35 
Record of service or 
activities giving rise to 
detrimental conflict of 
interest 
66 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 35 
SYSC 10.1.6R and 10.1.6AAR 
Requirements on record of 
conflicts 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 36 
Investment research and 
marketing communications 
Art 36(1) 
Existing definition in Glossary 
of definitions 
Definition of investment research 
Amendment made to existing definition of “investment 
research” to replace the cross-reference to the article 
with the full definition from the article. 
Art 36(2) 
COBS 12.2.18R(1) 
Obligations in relation to non­
independent research 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 37 
Additional organisational 
requirements in relation 
to investment research or 
marketing communication 
Art 37(1) 
COBS 12.2.19R(1) & COBS 
12.2.18AR 
Conflict of interest obligations in 
relation to investment research and 
non-independent research 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 37(2) 
COBS 12.2.21R 
Arrangements in relation to 
investment research 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 37(3) 
COBS 12.2.19R(2) 
Exemption from Art 37(1) 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 38 
Additional general 
requirements in relation to 
underwriting or placing 
Art 38 (1) 
COBS 11A.1.2R 
Requirements to provide specific 
information to issuer clients 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 38 (2) 
COBS 11A.1.3R(1) 
Requirement to identify 
underwriting and placing 
operations 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
67 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 38 (3) 
COBS 11A.1.3R(2) 
Requirement to ensure that 
adequate controls are in place to 
manage conflicts of interest 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 39 
Additional requirements 
in relation to pricing of 
offerings in relation to 
issuance of financial 
instruments 
Art 39(1) 
COBS 11A.1.4R 
Requirement for systems and 
controls to manage conflicts of 
interest 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 39(2) 
COBS 11A.1.5R 
Further requirements concerning 
the provision of information 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 40 
Additional requirements in 
relation to placing 
Art 40(1) 
COBS 11A.1.6R(1) 
Arrangements in relation to placing 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 40(2) 
COBS 11A.1.6R(2) 
Arrangements in relation to 
conflicts of interest 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 40(3) 
COBS 11A.1.6R(3) 
Third party payments or benefits 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 40(4) 
COBS 11A.1.6R(4) 
Requirement for allocation policy 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 40(5) 
COBS 11A.1.6R(5) 
Requirement in relation to 
allocation 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 41 
Additional requirements 
in relation to advice, 
distribution and self-
placement 
Art 41(1) 
COBS 11A.1.7R(1) 
Arrangements for prevention of 
conflicts 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
68 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 41(2) 
COBS 11A.1.7R(2) 
Arrangements for prevention of 
conflicts 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 41(3) 
COBS 11A.1.7R(3) 
Disclosure of conflicts 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 41(4) 
COBS 11A.1.7R(4) 
Additional disclosure requirements 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 42 
Additional requirements 
in relation to lending or 
provision of credit in the 
context of underwriting or 
placement 
Art 42(1) 
COBS 11A.1.8R(1) 
Arrangements for prevention of 
conflicts 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 42(2) 
COBS 11A.1.8R(2) 
Disclosure of conflicts 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 42(3) 
COBS 11A.1.8R(3) 
Sharing of information 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 43 
Record keeping in relation 
to underwriting or placing 
Art 43 
COBS 11A.1.19R 
Record keeping 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 44 
Fair, clear and not 
misleading information 
requirement 
Art 44(1) 
COBS 4.5A.3 R (1) 
General requirements 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 44(2)(a) 
COBS 4.5A.3 R (2) 
General requirements 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 44(2)(b) 
COBS 4.5A.3 R (2) 
General requirements 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 44(2)(c)  
COBS 4.5A.3 R (2) 
General requirements 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 44(2)(d) 
COBS 4.5A.3 R (2) 
General requirements 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 44(2)(e) 
COBS 4.5A.3 R (2) 
General requirements 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 44(2)(f) 
COBS 4.5A.3 R (2) 
General requirements 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
69 



 
 
 
 
 
  
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 44(2)(g) 
COBS 4.5A.3 R (2) 
General requirements 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 44(3)(a) 
COBS 4.5A.7 R 
Comparative information 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 44(3)(b) 
COBS 4.5A.7 R 
Comparative information 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 44(3)(c)  
COBS 4.5A.7 R 
Comparative information 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 44(4)(a) 
COBS 4.5A.10 R (1) 
Past performance 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 44(4)(b) 
COBS 4.5A.10 R (2) 
Past performance 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 44(4)(c) 
COBS 4.5A.10 R (3) 
Past performance 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 44(4)(d) 
COBS 4.5A.10 R (4) 
Past performance 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 44(4)(e) 
COBS 4.5A.10 R (5) 
Past performance 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 44(4)(f) 
COBS 4.5A.10 R (6) 
Past performance 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 44(5)(a) 
COBS 4.5A.12 R(2) 
Simulated past perfor-mance 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 44(5)(b) 
COBS 4.5A.12 R(3) 
Simulated past perfor-mance 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 44(5)(c) 
COBS 4.5A.12 R(4) 
Simulated past perfor-mance 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 44(6)(a) 
COBS 4.5A.14 R (1) 
Future performance 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 44(6)(b) 
COBS 4.5A.14 R (2) 
Future performance 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 44(6)(c) 
COBS 4.5A.14 R (3) 
Future performance 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 44(6)(d) 
COBS 4.5A.14 R (4) 
Future performance 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 44(6)(e) 
COBS 4.5A.14 R (5) 
Future performance 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 44(7) 
COBS 4.5A.8 R 
Referring to tax 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 44(8) 
COBS 4.5A.16 R 
Information that uses the name of 
the FCA 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 45 
Information concerning 
client categorisation 
70 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 45(1) 
COBS 3.3.1A R (1) 
General notifications 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 45(2) 
COBS 3.3.1A R (2) 
General notifications 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 45(3)(a) 
COBS 3.7.3A R (1) 
Providing clients with a higher level 
of protection 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 45(3)(b) 
COBS 3.7.3A R (2) 
Providing clients with a higher level 
of protection 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 46 
General requirements for 
information to clients 
Art 46(1)(a) 
COBS 8A.1.5 R (1) 
General requirements for 
information to clients 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 46(1)(b) 
COBS 8A.1.5 R (1) 
General requirements for 
information to clients 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 46(2) 
COBS 6.1ZA.17 R (1) and 
COBS 14.3A.7 R 
Timing of disclosure: Mi-FID 
business, General requirements for 
infor-mation to clients and Timing 
of disclosure 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 46(2A)(a) 
COBS 6.1ZA.17 R (2) 
Timing of disclosure: Mi-FID 
business, General requirement for 
infor-mation to clients and Timing 
of disclosure. 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 46(2A)(b) 
COBS 6.1ZA.17 R (2) 
Timing of disclosure: Mi-FID 
business, General requirement for 
infor-mation to clients and Timing 
of disclosure. 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 46(2B)(a) 
COBS 6.1ZA.17 R (3) 
Timing of disclosure: Mi-FID 
business, General requirement for 
infor-mation to clients and Timing 
of disclosure. 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
71 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 46(2B)(b) 
COBS 6.1ZA.17 R (3) 
Timing of disclosure: Mi-FID 
business, General requirement for 
infor-mation to clients and Timing 
of disclosure. 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 46(3) 
COBS 6.1ZA.19 R, COBS 
8A.1.7 R and COBS 14.3A 9 R 
Medium of disclosure: MiFID 
business, General requirement for 
infor-mation to clients and Medium 
of disclosure. 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 46(4) 
COBS 6.1ZA.20 R, COBS 
14.3A 10 R 
Keeping the client up to date: MiFID 
business, Keeping the client up-to­
date 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 46(5) 
COBS 4.5A.9 R 
Consistent financial pro-motions 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 46(6)(a) 
COBS 4.7.-1A R 
Direct offer financial promotions 
relating to MiFID, equivalent third 
country or optional ex-emption 
business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 46(6)(b) 
COBS 4.7.-1A R 
Direct offer financial promotions 
relating to MiFID, equivalent third 
country or optional ex-emption 
business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 47 
Information about the 
investment firm and its 
services for clients and 
potential clients 
Art 47(1)(a) 
COBS 6.1ZA.5 R (1) 
Information about a firm and its 
services: MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 47(1)(b) 
COBS 6.1ZA.5 R (2) 
Information about a firm and its 
services: MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
72 



 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 47(1)(c) 
COBS 6.1ZA.5 R (3) 
Information about a firm and its 
services: MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 47(1)(d) 
COBS 6.1ZA.5 R (4) 
Information about a firm and its 
services: MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 47(1)(e) 
COBS 6.1ZA.5 R (5) 
Information about a firm and its 
services: MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 47(1)(f) 
COBS 6.1ZA.5 R (6) 
Information about a firm and its 
services: MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 47(1)(g) 
COBS 6.1ZA.5 R (7) 
Information about a firm and its 
services: MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 47(1)(h) 
COBS 6.1ZA.5 R (8) 
Information about a firm and its 
services: MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 47(1)(i) 
COBS 6.1ZA.5 R (8) (b) 
Information about a firm and its 
services: MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 47(2) 
COBS 6.1ZA.8 R (1) 
Information about a firm’s portfolio 
management service: MiFID 
business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 47(3)(a) 
COBS 6.1ZA.8 R (2) 
Information about a firm’s portfolio 
management service: MiFID 
business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 47(3)(b) 
COBS 6.1ZA.8 R (2) 
Information about a firm’s portfolio 
management service: MiFID 
business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 47(3)(c) 
COBS 6.1ZA.8 R (2) 
Information about a firm’s portfolio 
management service: MiFID 
business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
73 



 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 47(3)(d) 
COBS 6.1ZA.8 R (2) 
Information about a firm’s portfolio 
management service: MiFID 
business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 47(3)(e) 
COBS 6.1ZA.8 R (2) 
Information about a firm’s portfolio 
management service: MiFID 
business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 48 
Information about financial 
instruments 
Art 48(1) 
COBS 14.3A.5 R (1) and (2) 
Providing a description of the 
nature and risks of financial 
instruments 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 48(2)(a) 
COBS 14.3A.5 R (3) (a) and 
(aa) 
Providing a description of the 
nature and risks of financial 
instruments 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 48(2)(b) 
COBS 14.3A.5 R (3) (b) 
Providing a description of the 
nature and risks of financial 
instruments 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 48(2)(c) 
COBS 14.3A.5 R (3) (c) 
Providing a description of the 
nature and risks of financial 
instruments 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 48(2)(d) 
COBS 14.3A.5 R (3) (d) 
Providing a description of the 
nature and risks of financial 
instruments 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 48(2)(e) 
COBS 14.3A.5 R (3) (e) 
Providing a description of the 
nature and risks of financial 
instruments 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 48(3) 
COBS 14.3A.5A R 
Providing a description of the 
nature and risks of financial 
instruments 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
74 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 48(4) 
COBS 14.3A.5B R 
Providing a description of the 
nature and risks of financial 
instruments 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 48(5) 
COBS 14.3A.5C R 
Providing a description of the 
nature and risks of financial 
instruments 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 49 
Information concerning 
safeguarding of client 
financial instruments or 
client funds 
Art 49(1) 
COBS 6.1ZA.9 R (1) 
Information concerning 
safeguarding of designated 
investments belonging to clients 
and client money: MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no changes 
Art 49(2) 
COBS 6.1ZA.9 R (1) (a) 
Information concerning 
safeguarding of designated 
investments belonging to clients 
and client money: MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no changes 
Art 49(3) 
COBS 6.1ZA.9 R (1) (b) 
Information concerning 
safeguarding of designated 
investments belonging to clients 
and client money: MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no changes 
Art 49(4) 
COBS 6.1ZA.9 R (1) (c) 
Information concerning 
safeguarding of designated 
investments belonging to clients 
and client money: MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no changes 
Art 49(5) 
COBS 6.1ZA.9 R (1) (d) 
Information concerning 
safeguarding of designated 
investments belonging to clients 
and client money: MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no changes 
75 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 49(6) 
COBS 6.1ZA.9 R (2) 
Information concerning 
safeguarding of designated 
investments belonging to clients 
and client money: MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no changes 
Art 49(7) 
COBS 6.1ZA.9 R (3) 
Information concerning 
safeguarding of designated 
investments belonging to clients 
and client money: MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no changes 
Article 50 
Information on costs and 
associated charges 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no changes 
Art 50(1) 
COBS 6.1ZA.14 R 
Costs and associated charges 
disclosure: MiFID 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no changes 
Art 50(1A) 
COBS 6.1ZA.14 R 
Costs and associated charges 
disclosure: MiFID 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no changes 
Art 50(2)(a) 
COBS 6.1ZA.14 R 
Costs and associated charges 
disclosure: MiFID 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no changes 
Art 50(2)(b) 
COBS 6.1ZA.14 R 
Costs and associated charges 
disclosure: MiFID 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no changes 
Art 50(3) 
COBS 6.1ZA.14 R 
Costs and associated charges 
disclosure: MiFID 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no changes 
Art 50(4) 
COBS 6.1ZA.14 R 
Costs and associated charges 
disclosure: MiFID 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no changes 
Art 50(5)(a) 
COBS 6.1ZA.14 R 
Costs and associated charges 
disclosure: MiFID 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no changes 
Art 50(5)(b) 
COBS 6.1ZA.14 R 
Costs and associated charges 
disclosure: MiFID 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no changes 
Art 50(6) 
COBS 6.1ZA.14 R 
Costs and associated charges 
disclosure: MiFID 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no changes 
76 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 50(7) 
COBS 6.1ZA.14 R 
Costs and associated charges 
disclosure: MiFID 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no changes 
Art 50(8) 
COBS 6.1ZA.14 R 
Costs and associated charges 
disclosure: MiFID 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no changes 
Art 50(9) 
COBS 6.1ZA.14 R 
Costs and associated charges 
disclosure: MiFID 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no changes 
Art 50(10)(a) 
COBS 6.1ZA.14 R 
Costs and associated charges 
disclosure: MiFID 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no changes 
Art 50(10)(b) 
COBS 6.1ZA.14 R 
Costs and associated charges 
disclosure: MiFID 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no changes 
Art 50(10)(c) 
COBS 6.1ZA.14 R 
Costs and associated charges 
disclosure: MiFID 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no changes 
Article 51 
Information provided 
Art 51 
COBS 14.3A.11 R 
Information provided in relation 
to units in collective investment 
undertakings or PRIIPs 
Restated into FCA Handbook with no changes 
Article 52 
Information about 
investment advice 
Art 52(1) 
COBS 6.2B.32 R and COBS 
6.2B.35 R 
Requirements for firms providing 
both independent and restricted 
advice and Disclosing the nature of 
advice provided. 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 52(2) 
COBS 6.2B.36 R (1)(a) 
Disclosing the nature of advice 
provided 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 52(3) 
COBS 6.2B.36 R (1)(b) and (2) 
Disclosing the nature of advice 
provided 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 52(4) 
COBS 6.2B.36 R (2) 
Disclosing the nature of advice 
provided 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
77 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 52(5)(a) 
COBS 9A.3.8 R (2)(a) 
Periodic assessments: MiFID 
business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 52(5)(b) 
COBS 9A.3.8 R (2)(b) 
Periodic assessments: MiFID 
business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 52(5)(c) 
COBS 9A.3.8 R (2)(c) 
Periodic assessments: MiFID 
business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 53 
Investment advice on an 
independent basis 
Art 53(1)(a) 
COBS 6.2B.18 R (2) 
Sufficient range 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 53(1)(b) 
COBS 6.2B.18 R (2) 
Sufficient range 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 53(1)(c) 
COBS 6.2B.18 R (2) 
Sufficient range 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 53(1)(d) 
COBS 6.2B.18 R (3) 
Sufficient range 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 53(2)(a) 
COBS 6.2B.15 R (1) 
Requirements for firms providing 
focused independent advice 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 53(2)(b) 
COBS 6.2B.15 R (2) 
Requirements for firms providing 
focused independent advice 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 53(2)(c) 
COBS 6.2B.15 R (3) 
Requirements for firms providing 
focused independent advice 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 53(3)(a) 
COBS 6.2B.29 R (1) 
Requirements for firms providing 
both independent and restricted 
advice 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 53(3)(b) 
COBS 6.2B.29 R (2) 
Requirements for firms providing 
both independent and restricted 
advice 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 53(3)(c) 
COBS 6.2B.29 R (3) 
Requirements for firms providing 
both independent and restricted 
advice 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
78 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Article 54 
Art 54(1) 
Art 54(2)(a) 
Art 54(2)(b) 
Art 54(2)(c) 
Art 54(3) 
COBS 9A.2.5 R 
Professional clients: MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 54(4) 
COBS 9A.2.7 R 
Obtaining information about a 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
client’s financial situation: MiFID 
business 
Art 54(5) 
Art 54(6) 
Art 54(7)(a) 
Handbook Reference 
Assessment of suitability 
and suitability report 
COBS 9A.2.23 R and COBS 
9A.3.1 R 
COBS 9A.2.4 R 
COBS 9A.2.4 R 
COBS 9A.2.4 R 
COBS 9A.2.8 R 
COBS 9A.2.15 R 
COBS 9A.2.9 R (2) 
Subject matter 
Automated or semi-automated 
systems: MiFID business and 
Explaining the reasons for 
assessing suitability: MiFID 
business 
Assessing the extent of the 
information required: MiFID 
business 
Assessing the extent of the 
information required: MiFID 
business 
Assessing the extent of the 
information required: MiFID 
business 
Obtaining information about a 
client’s investment objectives: 
MiFID business 
Identifying the subject of a 
suitability assessment: MiFID 
business 
Reliability of information: MiFID 
business 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
79 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 54(7)(b) 
COBS 9A.2.9 R (2) 
Reliability of information: MiFID 
business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 54(7)(c) 
COBS 9A.2.9 R (2) 
Reliability of information: MiFID 
business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 54(7)(d) 
COBS 9A.2.9 R (2) 
Reliability of information: MiFID 
business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 54(8) 
COBS 9A.2.13 R 
Insufficient information: MiFID 
business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 54(9) 
COBS 9A.2.19 R 
Adequate policies and procedures: 
MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 54(10) 
COBS 9A.2.20 R 
Unsuitability: MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 54(11) 
COBS 9A.2.18 R 
Switching: MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 54(12) 
COBS 9A.3.3 R 
Providing a suitability report: MiFID 
business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 54(13) 
COBS 9A.3.9 R 
Periodic assessments: MiFID 
business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 55 
Provisions common to the 
assessment of suitability or 
appropriateness 
Art 55(1)(a) 
COBS 9A.2.6 R (1) and COBS 
10A.2.4 R (1)(a) 
Obtaining information about 
knowledge and experience: MiFID 
business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 55(1)(b) 
COBS 9A.2.6 R (2) and COBS 
10A.2.4 R (1)(b) 
Obtaining information about 
knowledge and experience: MiFID 
business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 55(1)(c) 
COBS 9A.2.6 R (3) and COBS 
10A.2.4 R (1)(c) 
Obtaining information about 
knowledge and experience: MiFID 
business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
80 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 55(2) 
COBS 9A.2.11 R and COBS 
10A.2.5 R 
Discouraging the provision of 
information: MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 55(3) 
COBS 9A.2.12 R and COBS 
10A.2.6 R 
Reliance on information: MiFID 
business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 56 
Assessment of 
appropriateness and related 
record-keeping obligations 
Art 56(1) 
COBS 10A.2.3 R 
Assessing a client’s knowledge and 
experience: MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 56(2)(a) 
COBS 10A.7.2 R (2) 
Record keeping: MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 56(2)(b) 
COBS 10A.7.2 R (2) 
Record keeping: MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 56(2)(c) 
COBS 10A.7.2 R (2) 
Record keeping: MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 57 
Provision of services in non-
complex instruments 
Art 57(a) 
COBS 10A.4.2 R (1) 
Other non-complex financial 
instruments 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 57(b) 
COBS 10A.4.2 R (2) 
Other non-complex financial 
instruments 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 57(c) 
COBS 10A.4.2 R (3) 
Other non-complex financial 
instruments 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 57(d) 
COBS 10A.4.2 R (4) 
Other non-complex financial 
instruments 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 57(e) 
COBS 10A.4.2 R (5) 
Other non-complex financial 
instruments 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 57(f) 
COBS 10A.4.2 R (6) 
Other non-complex financial 
instruments 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
81 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Article 58 
Retail and professional 
client agreements 
Art 58(a) 
COBS 8A.1.4 R (4) 
Providing a client agreement: retail 
and professional clients 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 58(b) 
COBS 8A.1.4 R (4) 
Providing a client agreement: retail 
and professional clients 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 58(c) 
COBS 8A.1.4 R (4) 
Providing a client agreement: retail 
and professional clients 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 59 
Reporting obligations 
in respect of execution 
of orders other than for 
portfolio management 
Art 59(a) 
COBS 16A.3.1 R (1) 
Execution of orders other than 
when undertaking portfolio 
management 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 59(b) 
COBS 16A.3.1 R (1) 
Execution of orders other than 
when undertaking portfolio 
management 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 59(2) 
COBS 16A.3.1 R (1) 
Execution of orders other than 
when undertaking portfolio 
management 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 59(3) 
COBS 16A.3.1 R (5) 
Execution of orders other than 
when undertaking portfolio 
management 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 59(4)(a) 
COBS 16A.3.1 R (6) 
Execution of orders other than 
when undertaking portfolio 
management 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
82 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 59(4)(b) 
COBS 16A.3.1 R (6) 
Execution of orders other than 
when undertaking portfolio 
management 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 59(4)(c) 
COBS 16A.3.1 R (6) 
Execution of orders other than 
when undertaking portfolio 
management 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 59(4)(d) 
COBS 16A.3.1 R (6) 
Execution of orders other than 
when undertaking portfolio 
management 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 59(4)(e) 
COBS 16A.3.1 R (6) 
Execution of orders other than 
when undertaking portfolio 
management 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 59(4)(f) 
COBS 16A.3.1 R (6) 
Execution of orders other than 
when undertaking portfolio 
management 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 59(4)(g) 
COBS 16A.3.1 R (6) 
Execution of orders other than 
when undertaking portfolio 
management 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 59(4)(h) 
COBS 16A.3.1 R (6) 
Execution of orders other than 
when undertaking portfolio 
management 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 59(4)(i) 
COBS 16A.3.1 R (6) 
Execution of orders other than 
when undertaking portfolio 
management 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 59(4)(j) 
COBS 16A.3.1 R (6) 
Execution of orders other than 
when undertaking portfolio 
management 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
83 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 59(4)(k) 
COBS 16A.3.1 R (6) 
Execution of orders other than 
when undertaking portfolio 
management 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 59(4)(l) 
COBS 16A.3.1 R (6) 
Execution of orders other than 
when undertaking portfolio 
management 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 59(4)(m) 
COBS 16A.3.1 R (6) 
Execution of orders other than 
when undertaking portfolio 
management 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 59(4)(n) 
COBS 16A.3.1 R (6) 
Execution of orders other than 
when undertaking portfolio 
management 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 59(4)(o) 
COBS 16A.3.1 R (6) 
Execution of orders other than 
when undertaking portfolio 
management 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 59(4)(p) 
COBS 16A.3.1 R (6) 
Execution of orders other than 
when undertaking portfolio 
management 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 59(5) 
COBS 16A.3.1 R (8) 
Execution of orders other than 
when undertaking portfolio 
management 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 60 
Reporting obligations 
in respect of portfolio 
management 
Art 60(1) 
COBS 16A.4.1 R (1) 
Provision by a firm and contents: 
MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 60(2)(a) 
COBS 16A.4.1 R (2) 
Provision by a firm and contents: 
MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
84 



 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 60(2)(b) 
COBS 16A.4.1 R (2) 
Provision by a firm and contents: 
MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 60(2)(c) 
COBS 16A.4.1 R (2) 
Provision by a firm and contents: 
MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 60(2)(d) 
COBS 16A.4.1 R (2) 
Provision by a firm and contents: 
MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 60(2)(e) 
COBS 16A.4.1 R (2) 
Provision by a firm and contents: 
MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 60(2)(f) 
COBS 16A.4.1 R (2) 
Provision by a firm and contents: 
MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 60(2)(g) 
COBS 16A.4.1 R (2) 
Provision by a firm and contents: 
MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 60(2)(h) 
COBS 16A.4.1 R (2) 
Provision by a firm and contents: 
MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 60(3)(a) 
COBS 16A.4.1 R (3) 
Provision by a firm and contents: 
MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 60(3)(b) 
COBS 16A.4.1 R (3) 
Provision by a firm and contents: 
MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 60(3)(c) 
COBS 16A.4.1 R (3) 
Provision by a firm and contents: 
MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 60(4) 
COBS 16A.4.1 R (4) 
Provision by a firm and contents: 
MiFID business 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 61 
Reporting obligations 
in respect of eligible 
counterparties 
Art 61 
COBS 1 Annex 1, 1.1 R 
Execution of orders other than 
when undertaking portfolio 
management 
Incorporated in the table of application to eligible 
counterparty business in COBS 1 Annex 1 
85 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Article 62 
Additional reporting 
obligations for portfolio 
management or contingent 
liablity transactions 
Art 62 
Repealed by Markets in 
Financial Instruments 
(Investor Reporting) 
(Amendment) Regulations 
2022/1297 reg.2(4) (January 
18, 2023) 
Article 63 
Statements of client 
financial instruments or 
client funds 
Art 63(1) 
COBS 16A.5.1 R (1) and (2) 
Statements of client financial 
instruments or client funds 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 63(2)(a) 
COBS 16A.5.1 R (3) 
Statements of client financial 
instruments or client funds 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 63(2)(b) 
COBS 16A.5.1 R (3) 
Statements of client financial 
instruments or client funds 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 63(2)(c) 
COBS 16A.5.1 R (3) 
Statements of client financial 
instruments or client funds 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 63(2)(d) 
COBS 16A.5.1 R (3) 
Statements of client financial 
instruments or client funds 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 63(2)(e) 
COBS 16A.5.1 R (3) 
Statements of client financial 
instruments or client funds 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 63(2)(f) 
COBS 16A.5.1 R (3) 
Statements of client financial 
instruments or client funds 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
86 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 63(3) 
COBS 16A.5.1 R (5) 
Statements of client financial 
instruments or client funds 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 64 
Best execution criteria 
Art 64(1) 
COBS 11.2A.8R(1) 
Best execution criteria 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 64(2) 
COBS 11.2A.8R(2) 
Specific instructions 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 64(3) 
COBS 11.2A.8R(3) 
Commissions 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 64(4) 
COBS 11.2A.8R(4) 
OTC products 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 65 
Duty of investment firms 
carrying out portfolio 
management and reception 
and transmission of orders 
to act in the best interests 
of the client 
Art 65(1) 
COBS 11.2A.34R(1) 
Duty of portfolio managers to act in 
the client’s best interest 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 65(2) 
COBS 11.2A.34R(2) 
Duty of receivers and transmitters 
to act in the client’s best interest 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 65(3) 
COBS 11.2A.34R(3) 
Requirements for acting in client’s 
best interest 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 65(4) 
COBS 11.2A.34R(4) 
Obtaining best possible result for 
client 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 65(5) 
COBS 11.2A.34R(5) 
Order execution policy 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 65(6) 
COBS 11.2A.34R(6) 
Information on order execution 
policy 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 65(7) 
COBS 11.2A.34R(7) 
Monitoring the effectiveness of 
order execution policy; material 
change 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only; 
definition of ‘material change’ moved into Glossary as a 
new Glossary term 
87 



 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 65(8) 
COBS 11.2A.1R(5) 
Exception to application of the 
provision 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 66 
Execution policy 
Art 66(1) 
COBS 11.2A.25R(1) 
Order execution policy 
requirements 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 66(2) 
COBS 11.2A.25R(2) 
Information to depend on class of 
financial instrument 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 66(3) 
COBS 11.2A.25R(3) 
Information to be provided to 
clients 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 66(4) 
COBS 11.2A.25R(4) 
Information on fees 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 66(5) 
COBS 11.2A.25R(5) 
Information on execution venues 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 66(6) 
COBS 11.2A.25R(6) 
Information on third party 
payments 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 66(7) 
COBS 11.2A.25R(7) 
Information on benefits received by 
the firm 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 66(8) 
COBS 11.2A.25R(8) 
Client requests for information 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 66(9) 
COBS 11.2A.25R(9) 
Information for retail clients 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 67 
General principles 
Art 67(1) 
COBS 11.3.2AR(1) 
Carrying out client orders 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 67(2) 
COBS 11.3.4AR 
Settlement of executed orders 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 67(3) 
COBS 11.3.5AR 
Use of information relating to 
pending client orders 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 68 
Aggregation and allocation 
of orders 
Art 68(1) 
COBS 11.3.7AR 
Aggregation and allocation of 
orders 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
88 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 68(2) 
COBS 11.3.8AR 
Partial execution of aggregated 
client orders 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 69 
Aggregation and allocation 
of transactions for own 
account 
Art 69(1) 
COBS 11.3.9AR 
Aggregation and allocation of 
transactions for own account 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 69(2) 
COBS 11.3.10AR 
Partial execution of aggregated 
order 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 69(3) 
COBS 11.3.11AR 
Procedures designed to prevent 
reallocation 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 70 
Prompt, fair and expeditious 
execution of client 
orders and publication of 
unexecuted client limit 
orders for shares traded on 
a trading venue 
Art 70(1) 
COBS 11.4.3AR(1) 
Obligation to make unexecuted 
client limit orders public 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 70(2) 
COBS 11.4.3AR(2) 
Regulated markets and MTFs to be 
prioritised 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 71 
Eligible counterparties 
Art 71(1) 
COBS 3.6.4A R 
Per se professional clients 
Existing COBS rule 
Art 71(2) 
COBS 3.7.3B R (1) 
Providing clients with a higher level 
of protection 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 71(3) 
COBS 3.7.3B R (2) 
Providing clients with a higher level 
of protection 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
89 



 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 71(4) 
COBS 3.7.3B R (3) 
Providing clients with a higher level 
of protection 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 71(5)(a) 
COBS 3.6.4B R (1) 
Eligible counterparties 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 71(5)(b) 
COBS 3.6.4B R (2) 
Eligible counterparties 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 72 
Retention of records 
Art 72(1)(a) 
SYSC 9.1.2-AR(1) 
Requirements and conditions on 
the retention of records 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 72(1)(b) 
SYSC 9.1.2-AR(2) 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 72(1)(c) 
SYSC 9.1.2-AR(3) 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 72(1)(d) 
SYSC 9.1.2-AR(4) 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 72(1)(e) 
SYSC 9.1.2-AR(5) 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 72(2) 
SYSC 9.1.1BR(1) 
Requirements on minimum records 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 72(3) 
SYSC 9.1.1BR(2) 
Further requirements on records of 
policies and procedures 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 73 
Record keeping of rights 
and obligations of the 
investment firm and client 
Art 73 
COBS 8A.1.10R 
Record keeping: client agreements 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 74 
Record keeping of client 
orders and decision to deal 
Art 74 
COBS 11.5A.2R 
Recording initial orders received 
from clients 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 75 
Record keeping of 
transactions and order 
processing 
90 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 75 
COBS 11.5A.3 R 
Record keeping in relation to 
transactions and order processing 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 76 
Recording of telephone 
conversations or electronic 
communications 
Art 76(1) to (7) 
SYSC 10A.1.15R 
Obligations for telephone and 
electronic communications 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 76(8) 
SYSC 10A.1.12AR 
Requirements on notifications to 
clients 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 76(9) to (11) 
SYSC 10A.1.16R 
Requirements on record-keeping 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 77 
Qualification as an SME 
Art 77(1)(a) 
Glossary – SME definition 
Deeming provisions for SMEs with 
shares traded for less than 3 years 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 77(1)(b) 
Glossary – SME definition 
Deeming provisions for SMEs with 
shares traded for less than 3 years 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 77(1)(c) 
Glossary – SME definition 
Deeming provisions for SMEs with 
shares traded for less than 3 years 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 77(2) 
Glossary – SME definition 
Deeming provision for SME with 
no equity instruments traded on a 
venue 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 78 
Registration as an SME 
growth market 
Art 78(1) 
MAR 5.10.2AR(1) and (2) 
Registration as an SME growth 
market 
Language amended to clarify this is a firm-facing 
obligation 
Art 78(2)(a) 
MAR 5.10.2AR(3)(a) 
Registration as an SME growth 
market 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
91 



 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 78(2)(b) 
MAR 5.10.2AR(3)(b) 
Registration as an SME growth 
market 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 78(2)(c) 
MAR 5.10.2AR(3)(c) 
Registration as an SME growth 
market 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 78(2)(d) 
MAR 5.10.2AR(3)(d) 
Registration as an SME growth 
market 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 78(2)(e) 
MAR 5.10.2AR(3)(e) 
Registration as an SME growth 
market 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 78(2)(f) 
MAR 5.10.2AR(3)(f) 
Registration as an SME growth 
market 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 78(2)(g) 
MAR 5.10.2AR(3)(g) 
Registration as an SME growth 
market 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 78(2(h) 
MAR 5.10.2AR(3)(h) 
Registration as an SME growth 
market 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 78(2)(i) 
MAR 5.10.2AR(3)(i) 
Registration as an SME growth 
market 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 78(2)(j) 
MAR 5.10.2AR(3)(j) 
Registration as an SME growth 
market 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 78(3) 
Glossary – UK prospectus 
regime definition 
Definition of UK law implementing 
Directive 2003/71/EC 
Deleted and introduced a new definition of UK 
prospectus regime 
Article 79 
Deregistration as an SME 
Growth market 
Art 79(1) 
MAR 5.10.2CR(1) 
Deregistration as an SME growth 
market 
Restated with HSD changes only 
Art 79(2) 
MAR 5.10.2CR(2) 
Deregistration as an SME growth 
market 
Restated with HSD changes only 
… 
… 
92 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Article 81 
Circumstances where 
significant infringements 
of the rules of a trading 
venue or disorderly trading 
conditions or system 
disruptions in relation to a 
financial instrument may be 
assumed 
Art 81(1) 
MAR 5.6.1R (4) 
Obligation to consider the 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
MAR 5A.8.1R (4) 
factors in MAR 1 Annex 3(1) when 
REC 3.25.2R (1) 
assessing the requirement to 
inform the FCA of significant 
infringements of the rules of the 
trading venue, disorderly trading 
conditions or systems disruptions 
Art 81(2) 
Not restated 
Clarification on the circumstances 
in which information under A.81(1) 
would be required 
Not restated into FCA Handbook as not needed 
Article 82 
Circumstances where 
a conduct indicating 
behaviour that is prohibited 
under Regulation (EU) No 
596/2014 may be assumed 
Art 82(1) 
MAR 5.6.1R (5) 
Obligation to consider the 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
MAR 5A.8.1R (5) 
factors in MAR 1 Annex 3(2) when 
REC 3.25.3R (1) 
assessing whether the requirement 
to inform the FCA of conduct that 
may indicate a breach of the Market 
Abuse Regulation applies 
93 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 82(2) 
MAR 5.6.1AR (1) 
MAR 5A.8.1AR (1) 
REC 3.25.3(2) 
Obligation to consider additional 
factors for trading venues where 
financial instruments or related 
financial instruments are traded 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Art 82(3) 
MAR 5.6.1AR (3) 
MAR 5A.8.1AR (3) 
REC 3.25.3(4) 
Obligations to take into account 
front running behaviours 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Article 83 
Position reporting 
Art 83 
Not restated as part of 
this exercise. See FCA CP 
CP23/27: Reforming the 
commodity derivatives 
regulatory framework 
Position reporting 
Not restated as part of this exercise. See FCA CP 
CP23/27: Reforming the commodity derivatives 
regulatory framework 
Article 84 
Obligation to provide 
market data on a reasonable 
commercial basis 
Art 84 
Not restated as part of this 
exercise. See FCA CP23/33: 
Consultation on payments 
to data providers and DRSP 
forms including Policy 
Statement for the framework 
for UK consolidated tape 
(CP23/15) 
Obligation to provide market data 
on a reasonable commercial basis 
Not restated as part of this exercise. Issues relating 
to Articles 84-89 were considered in the making of 
the Data Reporting Services Forms (Amendment) 
Instrument 2024 [See FCA CP23/33: Consultation 
on payments to data providers and DRSP forms 
including Policy Statement for the framework for 
UK consolidated tape (CP23/15)]. Article 84 was 
revoked as of 5 April 2024 pursuant to regulation 4(d) 
(i) SI 2023/1382 rhttps://www.legislation.gov.uk/ 
uksi/2023/1382/contents/made 
Article 85 
Provision of market data on 
the basis of cost 
94 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 85 
Not restated as part of this 
exercise. See FCA CP23/33: 
Consultation on payments 
to data providers and DRSP 
forms including Policy 
Statement for the framework 
for UK consolidated tape 
(CP23/15) 
Provision of market data on the 
basis of cost 
See commentary for Article 84 
Article 86 
Obligation to provide 
market data on a non­
discriminatory basis 
Art 86 
Not restated as part of this 
exercise. See FCA CP23/33: 
Consultation on payments 
to data providers and DRSP 
forms including Policy 
Statement for the framework 
for UK consolidated tape 
(CP23/15) 
Obligation to provide market data 
on a non-discriminatory basis 
See commentary for Article 84 
Article 87 
Per user fees 
Art 87 
Not restated as part of this 
exercise. See FCA CP23/33: 
Consultation on payments 
to data providers and DRSP 
forms including Policy 
Statement for the framework 
for UK consolidated tape 
(CP23/15) 
Per user fees 
See commentary for Article 84 
Article 88 
Unbundling and 
disaggregating market data 
95 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Art 88 
Not restated as part of this 
exercise. See FCA CP23/33: 
Consultation on payments 
to data providers and DRSP 
forms including Policy 
Statement for the framework 
for UK consolidated tape 
(CP23/15) 
Unbundling and disaggregating 
market data 
See commentary for Article 84 
Article 89 
Transparency obligation 
Art 89 
Not restated as part of this 
exercise. See FCA CP23/33: 
Consultation on payments 
to data providers and DRSP 
forms including Policy 
Statement for the framework 
for UK consolidated tape 
(CP23/15) 
Transparency obligation 
See commentary for Article 84 
Article 90 
Determination of the 
substantial importance of 
the operations of a trading 
venue in a host Member 
State 
Art 90 
Not restated as previously 
revoked 
Determination of the substantial 
importance of the operations of 
a trading venue in a host Member 
State 
Not restated as previously revoked 
Article 91 
Entry into force and 
application 
Art 91 
Not restated as not needed 
Entry into force and application 
Not restated as not needed 
Annex I 
Record-keeping 
96 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Annex I Client 
COBS 2.2A.7 R, COBS 
Content as provided for under 
Combination of existing COBS rules and new rules 
assessment – 
3.8.2 R, COBS 4.11A.3 R, 
Article 24(4) of MiFID and Articles 
information to 
COBS 6.1ZA.25 R, COBS 
44 to 51 of the MiFID Org 
clients 
6.2B.40B R, COBS 8A.1.9 R, 
Regulation 
COBS 9A.4.2A R and COBS 
14.3A.13 R 
Annex I Client 
assessment – client 
agreements 
COBS 8A.1.9 R and 8A.1.10R 
Records as provided for under 
Article 25(5) of MiFID and Article 58 
of the MiFID Org Reg 
Combination of existing COBS rule and new rule 
Annex I Client 
COBS 9A.4.2A R, COBS 
Content as provided for under 
Combination of existing COBS rule and new rule 
assessment – 
10A.7.2 R 
Article 25(2) and (3) of MiFID and 
Assessment of 
Articles 54. 55 and 56 of the MiFID 
suitability and 
Org Reg 
appropriateness 
Annex I Order 
handling – Client-
order handling 
– aggregated 
transactions 
COBS 11.3.15R 
Records as provided for under 
Articles 67 to 70 of the MiFID Org 
Reg 
Restated into FCA Handbook as new rule, in same 
location as the rules replicating Articles 67-70 of MiFID 
Org Reg 
Annex I Order 
handling – 
Aggregation 
and allocation of 
transactions for 
own account 
COBS 11.3.15R 
Records as provided for under 
Article 69 of the MiFID Org Reg 
Restated into FCA Handbook as new rule, in same 
location as the rule replicating Article 69 of MiFID Org 
Reg 
Annex I Client 
Orders and 
transactions – 
record keeping of 
client orders or 
decisions to deal 
COBS 11.5A.2R 
Records as provided for under 
Article 74 of the MiFID Org Reg. 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
97 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Annex I Client 
Orders and 
transactions – 
record keeping of 
transactions and 
order processing 
COBS 11.5A.3R 
Records as provided for under 
Article 75 of the MiFID Org Reg 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Annex I Reporting 
to clients – 
obligation in respect 
of services provided 
to clients 
COBS 16A.2.4R 
Contents as provided for under 
Articles 59 to 63 of the MiFID Org 
Reg 
Restated into FCA Handbook as a new rule, in same 
location as the rules replicating Articles 59, 60 and 63 of 
MiFID Org Reg 
Annex I 
CASS 6.2.1R, Article 2(1)(a): 
Records as provided for under 
Existing rules in FCA Handbook 
Safeguarding of 
CASS 6.2.2R 
Article 16(8) of MiFID and under 
client assets – 
Article 2(1)(b): CASS 6.6.3R 
Article 2 of Commission Delegated 
client financial 
Article 2(1)(c): CASS 6.6.34R 
Directive (EU) 2017/593 
instruments held by 
Article 2(4): CASS 6.3.6AR 
an investment firm 
Article 2(5): CASS 10.1.7R 
Annex I 
CASS 7.12.1R, Article 2(1)(a): 
Records as provided for under 
Existing rule in FCA Handbook 
Safeguarding of 
CASS 7.15.2R 
Article 16(9) of MiFID and under 
client assets – client 
Article 2(1)(b): CASS 7.15.3R 
Article 2 of Delegated Directive 
funds held by an 
Article 2(1)(c): CASS 7.15.20R 
(EU) 2017/593 
investment firm 
Article 2(5): CASS 10.1.7R 
Annex I 
Safeguarding of 
client assets – use 
of client financial 
instruments 
CASS 6.4.3R 
Records provided for under 
Article 5 of Delegated Directive 
(EU) 2017/593 
Existing rule in FCA Handbook 
98 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Annex I 
Communications 
with clients – 
information 
about costs and 
associated charges 
COBS 6.1ZA.25R 
Contents as provided for under 
Article 50 of MiFID Org Reg 
Restated into FCA Handbook as a new rule, in same 
location as the rules replicating Article 50 of MiFID Org 
Reg 
Annex I 
Communications 
with clients – 
information about 
the investment 
firm and its 
services, financial 
instruments and 
safe-guarding of 
client assets 
COBS 6.1ZA.25R and COBS 
14.3A.13R 
Content as provided for under 
Articles 47, 48 and 49 of MiFID Org 
Reg 
Restated into FCA Handbook as new rules, in same 
locations as the rules replicating Articles 47, 48 and 49 
of MiFID Org Reg 
Annex I 
Communications 
with clients – 
information to 
clients 
COBS 4.11A.3R 
Records of communication – see 
Article 46 of MiFID Org Reg 
Restated into FCA Handbook as a new rule 
Annex I 
Communications 
with clients 
– marketing 
communications 
(except in oral form) 
COBS 4.11A.3R 
Each marketing communication 
issued by the investment firm 
(except in oral form) as provided 
under Articles 44 and 46 of MiFID 
Org Reg 
Restated into FCA Handbook as a new rule 
99 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Annex I 
Communications 
with clients – 
investment advice 
to retail clients 
COBS 9A.4.2AR 
(i) The fact, time and date that 
investment advice was rendered 
and (ii) the financial instrument 
that was recommended (iii) the 
suitability report provided to the 
client – see Article 54 of the MiFID 
Org Reg 
Restated into FCA Handbook as a new rule, in same 
location as the rules replicating Article 54 of MiFID Org 
Reg 
Annex I 
Communications 
with clients – 
investment 
research 
COBS 12.2.25R 
Each item of research issued by 
the investment firm in a durable 
medium – see Articles 36 and 37 
MiFID Org Reg 
Restated into FCA Handbook as new rule, in same 
location as the rules replicating Articles 36 and 37 of 
MiFID Org Reg 
Annex I 
Organisational 
requirements – the 
firm’s business 
and internal 
organisation 
SYSC 9.1.1BR(1) 
Records as provided for under 
Article 21(1)(f) of MiFID Org Reg 
Restated into FCA Handbook as new rule 
Annex I 
Organisational 
requirements – 
compliance reports 
SYSC 9.1.1BR(1) 
Each compliance report to 
management body - see Article 
22(2) (c) and Article 25(2) of MiFID 
Org Reg 
Restated into FCA Handbook as new rule 
Annex I 
Organisational 
requirements – 
conflicts of interest 
record 
SYSC 9.1.1BR(1) 
Records as provided for under 
Article 35 of MiFID Org Reg 
Restated into FCA Handbook as new rule 
Annex I 
Organisational 
requirements – 
inducements 
COBS 2.3A.35R 
The information disclosed to 
clients under Article 24(9) of MiFID. 
Also see Article 11, 12 and 13 of 
Delegated Directive (EU) 2017/593 
Restated into FCA Handbook as new rule 
100 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Annex I 
Organisational 
requirements – 
risk management 
reports 
SYSC 9.1.1BR(1) 
Each risk management report to 
senior management. See Article 
23(1)(b) and Article 25(2) of MiFID 
Org Reg 
Restated into FCA Handbook as new rule 
Annex I 
Organisational 
requirements 
– internal audit 
reports 
SYSC 9.1.1BR(1) 
Each internal audit report to senior 
management – see Article 24 and 
Article 25(2) of MiFID Org Reg 
Restated into FCA Handbook as new rule 
Annex I 
Organisational 
requirements 
– complaints-
handling records 
DISP 1.1A.37R 
Each complaint and the complaint 
handling measures taken to 
address the complaint – see Article 
26 of MiFID Org Reg 
Obligation restated to FCA Handbook through 
amendment to existing rule 
Annex I 
Organisational 
requirements – 
records of personal 
records 
COBS 11.7A.5R(5)(c) and 
SYSC 9.1.1BR(1) 
Records as provided for under 
Article 29(5)(c) of MiFID Org Reg 
Restated into FCA Handbook as new rule, in same 
location as the rule replicating Article 29(5)(c) MiFID 
Org Reg 
Annex II 
Costs and charges 
Table 1 
COBS 6 Annex 7 R 
Identified costs that should form 
part of the costs to be disclosed to 
the clients 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Table 2 
COBS 6 Annex 7 R 
Identified costs that should form 
part of the costs to be disclosed to 
the clients 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
101 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MiFID ORG 
Regulation Article 
Handbook Reference 
Subject matter 
Handbook style drafting or other comment 
Annex III 
Requirement for operators 
of trading venues to 
immediately inform their 
national competent 
authority 
Annex III 
MAR 1 Annex III 
Requirement for operators of 
trading venues to immediately 
inform their national competent 
authority 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Annex IV 
[No title] 
Annex IV section 1 
COBS 11.5A.4R 
Minimum details to be recorded 
in relation to client orders and 
decisions to deal 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
Annex IV section 2 
COBS 11.5A.5R 
Minimum details to be recorded in 
relation to transactions and order 
processing 
Restated into FCA Handbook with HSD changes only 
102 



103  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex 5 
Abbreviations in this document 
Abbreviation 
Description 
AGBR 
Advice Guidance Boundary Review 
AIFM 
Alternative Investment Fund Manager 
Alternative Investment Fund Managers 
AIFMD 
Directive 
CASS 
Client Assets Sourcebook 
CBA 
Cost Benefit Analysis 
CCI 
Consumer Composite Investments 
CFD 
Contracts for Difference 
CFI 
Call for Input 
CIS 
Collective Investment Scheme 
COBS 
Conduct of Business sourcebook 
CP 
Consultation Paper 
CRD 
Capital Requirements Directive 
CRR 
UK Capital Requirements Regulation 
DEPP 
Decision Procedure and Penalties Manual 
DISP 
The Dispute Resolution sourcebook 
DP 
Discussion Paper 



104 
 
 
 
 
 
Abbreviation 
Description 
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency 
DTR 
Rules sourcebook 
EA 
Equality Act 
ECP 
Eligible Counterparty 
EEA 
European Economic Area 
ESG 
Environmental, Social and Governance 
EU 
European Union 
FCA 
Financial Conduct Authority 
FOS 
Financial Ombudsman Service 
FSCS 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
FSMA 
Financial Services and Markets Act 
GEN 
General Provisions sourcebook 
HDS 
Handbook Drafting Style 
IDD 
Insurance Distribution Directive 
IPCD 
Implementation Period Completion Date 
LRRA 
Legislative and Regulatory Reform Act 
M2G 
The MiFID 2 Onshoring Guide 
MAR 
Market Abuse Conduct Sourcebook 
MiFID 
Markets in Financial Instruments Directive 
Markets in Financial Instruments 
MiFI Regs 
Regulations 



105  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abbreviation 
Description 
Markets in Financial Instruments Directive 
MiFIDPRU 
(Prudential) 
MTF 
Multilateral Trading Facilities 
OFR 
Overseas Funds Regime 
OPS 
Occupational Pension Scheme 
OTF 
Organised Trading Facilities 
PERG 
Perimeter Guidance 
PRA 
Prudential Regulation Authority 
Packaged Retail and Insurance-based 
PRIIPs 
investment products Regulation 
PROF 
Professional Firms Sourcebook 
PS 
Policy Statement 
RAO 
Regulated Activities Order 
REC 
Recognised Clearing House Sourcebook 
RIE 
Investment Exchanges Sourcebook 
SI 
Systematic Internalisers 
Secondary International Competitiveness 
SICGO 
and Growth Objective 
SMCR 
Senior Managers and Certification Regime 
Small and Medium-sized Enterprise growth 
SME growth markets 
markets 
SRF 
Smarter Regulatory Framework 
SUP 
Supervision Manual 



106 
 
  
 
Abbreviation 
Description 
SYSC 
Systems & Controls Sourcebook 
TC 
Training and Competence Sourcebook 
TP 
Temporary Permission 
Undertakings for Collective Investment 
UCITS 
in Transferable Securities Implementing 
Directive 
UK 
United Kingdom 
All our publications are available to download from www.fca.org.uk. 
Request an alternative format 
Please complete this form if you require this content in an alternative format. 
Or call 020 7066 6087 
Sign up for our news and publications alerts 



Appendix 1 
Draft Handbook text 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
MARKETS IN FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (SMARTER REGULATORY 
FRAMEWORK) INSTRUMENT 202X 
Powers exercised by the Financial Conduct Authority: 
A. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (“the FCA”) makes this instrument in the exercise 
of the powers and related provisions in or under: 
(1) 
the following sections of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (“the 
Act”): 
(a) 
section 137A (The FCA’s general rules); 
(b) 
section 137R (Financial promotion rules); 
(c) 
section 137T (General supplementary powers); 
(d) 
section 138D (Actions for damages); 
(e) 
section 139A (Power of the FCA to give guidance); 
(f) 
section 143C (Duty to make rules applying to FCA investment firms); 
(g) 
section 143D (Duty to make rules applying to parent undertakings);  
(h) 
section 143E (Powers to make rules applying to parent undertakings); 
(i) 
section 226 (Compulsory jurisdiction); and 
(j) 
section 300H (Rules relating to investment exchanges and data 
reporting service providers); 
(2) 
regulation 11 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Recognition 
Requirements for Investment Exchanges, Clearing Houses and Central 
Securities Depositaries) Regulations 2001(SI 2001/995); and 
(3) 
the other rule and guidance making powers listed in Schedule 4 (Powers 
exercised) to the General Provisions of the FCA’s Handbook. 
B. 
The rule-making powers listed above are specified for the purposes of section 
138G(2) (Rule-making instruments) of the Act. 
C. 
The FCA approves the Voluntary Jurisdiction rules and guidance to be made and 
amended, the standard terms for Voluntary Jurisdiction participants to be fixed and 
varied and the scheme rules made and amended by the Financial Ombudsman Service 
Limited under this instrument. 
Powers exercised by the Financial Ombudsman Service Limited 
D. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service Limited: 
(1) makes and amends the rules and guidance for the Voluntary Jurisdiction; and 
(2) fixes and varies the standard terms for Voluntary Jurisdiction participants, 
to incorporate the changes to the Glossary of definitions as set out in Annex A to this 
instrument; and 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(3) makes and amends the scheme rules, 
in order to incorporate the changes to the Glossary of definitions as set out in Annex 
A to this instrument, 
in the exercise of the following powers and related provisions in the Act: 
(a) section 227 (Voluntary Jurisdiction); 
(b) paragraph 8 (Information, advice and guidance) of Schedule 17; 
(c) paragraph 14 (The scheme operator’s rules) of Schedule 17; 
(d) paragraph 18 (Terms of reference to the scheme) of Schedule 17; and 
(e) paragraph 20 (Voluntary Jurisdiction rules: procedure) of Schedule 17. 
E. 
The making and amendment of the rules and guidance, the fixing and varying of the 
standard terms and the making and amendment of scheme rules by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service Limited, as set out at Paragraph C above, is subject to the 
consent and approval of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Commencement 
F. 
This instrument comes into force on [date]. 
Interpretation 
G. 
In this instrument, any reference to any provision of assimilated direct legislation is a 
reference to it as it forms part of assimilated law. 
Amendments to the Handbook 
H. 
The modules of the FCA’s Handbook of rules and guidance listed in column (1) 
below are amended in accordance with the Annexes to this instrument listed in 
column (2) below. 
(1) 
(2) 
Glossary of definitions 
Annex A 
Senior Management Arrangements, Systems and Controls 
sourcebook (SYSC) 
Annex B 
Training and Competence sourcebook (TC) 
Annex C 
General Provisions sourcebook (GEN) 
Annex D 
Prudential sourcebook for MiFID Investment Firms (MIFIDPRU) 
Annex E 
Conduct of Business sourcebook (COBS) 
Annex F 
Client Assets sourcebook (CASS) 
Annex G 
Market Conduct sourcebook (MAR) 
Annex H 
Supervision manual (SUP) 
Annex I 
Decision Procedure and Penalties manual (DEPP) 
Annex J 
Dispute Resolution: Complaints sourcebook (DISP) 
Annex K 
Professional Firms sourcebook (PROF) 
Annex L 
Recognised Investment Exchanges sourcebook (REC) 
Annex M 
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook (DTR) 
Annex N 
Page 2 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
Amendment to material outside the Handbook 
I. 
The MiFID 2 Onshoring Guide (M2G) is amended in accordance with Annex O to 
this instrument. 
Notes 
J. 
In the Annexes to this instrument, the notes (indicated by “Note:” or “Editor’s note:”) 
are included for the convenience of readers, but do not form part of the legislative 
text. 
Citation 
K. 
This instrument may be cited as the Markets in Financial Instruments (Smarter 
Regulatory Framework) Instrument 202X. 
By order of the Board 
[date] 
Page 3 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
Annex A 
Amendments to the Glossary of definitions 
In this Annex, underlining indicates new text and striking through indicates deleted text, 
unless otherwise stated. 
Insert the following new definitions in the appropriate alphabetical position. The text is not 
underlined. 
DGSD 
Directive 2014/49/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 
April 2014 on deposit guarantee schemes (recast). 
Directive 
means the law of the UK, or any part of it, which was relied on by the UK 
2013/36/EU 
immediately before IP completion day, to implement Directive 2013/36/EU and 
UK law 
its implementing measures: 
(a) 
as it has effect on 1 January 2022, in the case of rules made by the PRA 
under the Act; and 
(b) 
as amended from time to time, in all other cases. 
EU MiFID 
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/565 of 25 April 2016 
Org 
supplementing MiFID of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards 
Regulation 
organisational requirements and operating conditions for investment firms and 
defined terms for the purposes of that Directive. 
Gibraltar-
A Gibraltar-based firm which would be a MiFID investment firm if it had its 
based 
head office or registered office in the United Kingdom 
investment 
firm 
material 
(in COBS 11) a significant event that could impact parameters of best 
change 
execution, such as cost, price, speed, likelihood of execution and settlement, 
size, nature or any other consideration relevant to the execution of the order. 
MiFID best 
(in COBS 11) the obligation of a firm under COBS 11.2A.2R, COBS 11.2A.9R, 
execution 
COBS 11.2A.12R and COBS 11.2A.15R. 
obligation 
Part 9C 
has the meaning given in section 143F(1) of the Act. 
rules 
UK law on 
(1) 
assimilated law relating to the Market Abuse Regulation including: 
market 
abuse 
(a) 
the requirements in the Act related to the Market Abuse Regulation 
including the market abuse regime; 
(b) 
the Market Abuse Regulation; 
Page 4 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(c) 
the Market Abuse Regulation regulatory technical standards and 
implementing technical standards; 
(d) 
the Criminal Justice Act 1993; 
(e) 
the Financial Services Act 2012; and 
(f) 
FCA rules relating to the Market Abuse Regulation; 
(2) 
FCA rules substituting the Market Abuse Regulation; and 
(3) 
FCA rules substituting assimilated law in (1)(b) and (c). 
UK law on 
(1) 
assimilated law relating to MiFID including: 
markets in 
financial 
(a) 
requirements imposed by or under the Act; 
instruments  
(b) 
MiFIR; 
(c) 
MiFIR Delegated Regulation; 
(d) 
MiFID regulatory technical standards and implementing technical 
standards; 
(e) 
MiFIR regulatory technical standards and implementing technical 
standards; 
(f) 
MiFI Regulations; 
(g) 
FCA rules relating to MiFID; and 
(h) 
PRA rules relating to MiFID. 
(2) 
FCA rules and PRA rules substituting the UK version of Commission 
Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/565 of 25 April 2016 which was part of 
UK law by virtue of the EUWA as at [date of revocation of MiFID Org 
Reg]. 
(3) 
FCA rules substituting assimilated law in (1)(b) to (f). 
UK 
UK law corresponding to and implementing the EU Prospectus Regulation 
prospectus 
including: 
regime 
(1) 
the Prospectus Regulation; 
(2) 
the Prospectus RTS Regulation; 
(3) 
the PR Regulation; 
(4) 
Part VI of the Act; and 
Page 5 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(5) 
rules in the Prospectus Regulations Rules Instrument 2019 (FCA 
2019/80) (and successor provisions). 
Amend the following definitions as shown. 
algorithmic 
… 
trading 
[Note: article 4(1)(39) of MiFID] 
client money … 
(2A) (in MIFIDPRU, FEES, CASS 6, CASS 7, CASS 7A and CASS 10 and, 
in so far as it relates to matters covered by CASS 6, CASS 7, COBS and 
IPRU(INV)) subject to the client money rules, money of any currency: 
(a) 
that a firm receives or holds for, or on behalf of, a client in the 
course of, or in connection with, its MiFID business and (in 
relation to COBS only, if the context requires) its equivalent 
business of a third country investment firm; or 
… 
… 
commodity 
… 
[Note: article 2(6) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
common 
(1) 
SYSC 4 to SYSC 9; and. 
platform 
organisatio­
(2) 
those articles of the MiFID Org Regulation as applied in accordance 
nal 
with SYSC 1 Annex 1 2.8AR(1)214, SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2-AR, SYSC 1 
requirement 
Annex 1 3.2-BR, SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2CR and SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.3R. 
s 
[deleted] 
common 
(in relation to common platform firms) the following: 
platform 
record­
(1) 
SYSC 9; and. 
keeping 
requirement 
(2) 
those articles of the MiFID Org Regulation as applied in accordance 
s 
with SYSC 1 Annex 1 2.8AR(1), SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2-AR, SYSC 1 
Annex 1 3.2-BR, SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2CR and SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.3R. 
[deleted] 
common 
(1) 
SYSC 4 to SYSC 10; and. 
platform 
requirement 
(2) 
those articles of the MiFID Org Regulation as applied in accordance 
s 
with SYSC 1 Annex 1 2.8AR(1), SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2-AR, SYSC 1 
Page 6 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
competent 
employees 
rule 
compliance 
requirement 
s for SMCR 
firms 
dealing on 
own account 
derivative 
durable 
medium 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
Annex 1 3.2-BR, SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2CR and SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.3R. 
[deleted] 
(a) 
for an insurer, a managing agent and the Society, SYSC 3.1.6R; and 
(b) 
for a common platform firm, article 21(1)(d) of the MiFID Org 
Regulation that applies in accordance with SYSC 1 Annex 1 
2.8R and SYSC 1 Annex 1 2.8AR; [deleted] 
(ba) 
for a MiFID optional exemption firm and a third country firm, article 
21(1)(d) of the MiFID Org Regulation that applies in accordance 
with SYSC 1 Annex 1 2.8R, SYSC 1 Annex 1 2.8AR and SYSC 1 
Annex 1 3.2CR; and [deleted] 
(c) 
for every other firm, SYSC 5.1.1R (where it applies). 
any of the following requirements: 
… 
(c) 
article 22 of the MiFID Org Regulation (Compliance) SYSC 6.1.2-AR, 
SYSC 6.1.3-AR, SYSC 6.1.4-AAR and SYSC 6.1.5AR; 
(d) 
article 22 of the MiFID Org Regulation SYSC 6.1.2-AR, SYSC 6.1.3­
AR, SYSC 6.1.4-AAR and SYSC 6.1.5AR (as applied in accordance 
with SYSC 1 Annex 1 2.8AR, SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2-AR, SYSC 1 Annex 
1 3.2-BR, SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2CR and SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.3R); or 
… 
trading against proprietary capital resulting in the conclusion of transactions 
in one or more financial instruments, except where the firm participates in 
matching arrangements entered into with entities outside its own group with 
the objective or consequence of carrying out de facto riskless back-to-back 
transactions in a financial instrument outside a trading venue. 
… 
(1) 
… 
(2) 
(in REC, MAR 5, and MAR 5A and COBS 12) those financial 
instruments defined in article 2(1)(24)(c) of MiFIR or referred to in 
paragraphs 4 to 10 of Part 1 of Schedule 2 to the Regulated Activities 
Order. 
… 
(1) 
Any instrument: 
(a) 
which is either: 
(i) 
paper; or 
Page 7 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(b) 
(ii) 
any an instrument which enables the recipient to store 
information addressed personally to the recipient in a way 
accessible for future reference and for a period of time 
adequate for the purposes of the information and which 
allows the unchanged reproduction of the information stored.; 
and 
(b) 
in relation to which any applicable conditions in (2) to (4) are 
satisfied (read, as applicable, by reference to (5)). 
(2) 
In relation to the equivalent business of a third country investment 
firm, MiFID optional exemption business or collective portfolio 
management, if the relevant rule derives from the MiFID Org 
Regulation or is a rule which implemented the UCITS Directive, 
the UCITS implementing Directive or the UCITS implementing 
Directive No 2 the instrument used must be: 
(i) 
appropriate to the context in which the business is to be carried 
(a) 
on; and 
(ii) 
specifically chosen by the recipient when offered the choice 
(b) 
between that instrument and paper. 
If the relevant rule derives from the MiFID Org Regulation: 
(iii) the requirements in (i) and (ii) above only apply in relation to 
retail clients or potential retail clients; 
(iv) where the client or potential client is a retail client, or potential 
retail client, who has requested to receive the information on 
paper, that information must be provided on paper and free of 
charge; and 
(v) 
firms must provide all information required to be provided in a 
durable medium by the relevant rule to clients or potential clients 
in electronic format, except where the client or potential client is 
a retail client, or potential retail client. 
(3) 
In relation to rules in SYSC and COBS insofar as they apply to MiFID, 
equivalent third country or optional exemption business: 
(a) 
if the recipient is a retail client: 
(i) 
they must be informed of the right to receive the information 
on paper instead of in electronic format; and 
(ii) 
if the retail client requests to receive the information on 
paper, the information must be provided on paper and free of 
charge; and 
Page 8 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EEA UCITS 
management 
company 
financial 
analyst 
financial 
instrument 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(b) 
in any other case, the information must be provided in electronic 
format. 
(4) 
In ICOBS and, in relation to life policies, in COBS: 
(vi) the instrument used must be appropriate in the context of the 
(a) 
business conducted between the insurance distributor and 
(for ICOBS) the customer or (for COBS) the client; and 
(vii the customer (for ICOBS) or client (for COBS) must be given the 
) 
choice between information on paper and the instrument used, 
(b) 
and must specifically choose the latter medium. 
(5) 
For the purposes of this definition, the provision of information by 
means of electronic communications shall be treated as is to be 
considered appropriate to the context in which the business between 
the firm and the client is, or is to be, carried on if there is evidence that 
the client has regular access to the internet. The provision by 
the client of an e-mail address for the purposes of the carrying on of 
that business is sufficient. 
[Note: article 2(f) of, and Recital 20 to, the Distance Marketing Directive, 
articles 2(1)(18), 23(4) and 23(6) of the IDD, article 4(1)(62) of MiFID and 
article 3(1), (1A) and (1B) of the MiFID Org Regulation, articles 75(2) and 
81(1) of the UCITS Directive, article 20(3) of the UCITS implementing 
Directive and article 7 of the UCITS implementing Directive No 2] 
[Editor’s note: The changes proposed to the definition of ‘durable medium’ 
follow those consulted on in Quarterly Consultation Paper No. 44 (CP24/11).] 
a management company an undertaking established in the EEA, the regular 
business of which is the management of EEA UCITS schemes. 
… 
[Note: article 2(1) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
(1) 
(other than in (2) and (3)) those instruments specified in Part 1 of 
Schedule 2 to the Regulated Activities Order, that is: 
… 
(da 
(in relation to derivative contracts relating to a currency) has the 
) 
meaning in article 10 of the MiFID Org Regulation) Article 10 
(Characteristics of other derivative contracts relating to 
currencies’) of Part 2 of Schedule 2 to the Regulated Activities 
Order, (in summary): 
Page 9 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
… 
… 
(f) 
options, futures, swaps, and any other derivative contract relating 
to commodities that can be physically settled provided that they 
are traded on a regulated market, a UK MTF or a UK OTF, 
except for wholesale energy products (having regard to article 6 
of the MiFID Org Regulation Article 6 (Energy derivative 
contracts relating to oil and coal and wholesale energy products) 
of Part 2 of Schedule 2 to the Regulated Activities Order) traded 
on a UK OTF that must be physically settled where the 
conditions of article 5 of the MiFID Org Regulation Article 5 
(Wholesale energy products that must be physically settled) of 
Part 2 of Schedule 2 to the Regulated Activities Order are met; 
(g) 
options, futures, swaps, forwards and any other derivative 
contracts relating to commodities, that can be physically settled 
not otherwise mentioned in (f) and: 
(i) 
not being for commercial purposes or wholesale 
energy products traded on an EU OTF that must 
be physically settled, having regard to article 7(4) 
of the MiFID Org Regulation paragraph 4 of 
Article 7 (Other derivative financial instruments) 
of Part 2 of Schedule 2 to the Regulated Activities 
Order; 
(ii) 
which have the characteristics of other derivative 
financial instruments having regard to article 7(1) 
of the MiFID Org Regulation paragraph 1 of 
Article 7 of Part 2 of Schedule 2 to the Regulated 
Activities Order; and 
(iii) 
not being spot contracts having regard to articles 7 
(1) and (2) of the MiFID Org Regulation 
paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 7 of Part 2 of 
Schedule 2 to the Regulated Activities Order; 
… 
(j) 
options, futures, swaps, forward rate agreements and any other 
derivative contracts relating to: 
… 
(xii) 
a derivative contract to which article 8 of the 
MiFID Org Regulation Article 8 (Derivatives 
under paragraph 10 of Part 1 of Schedule 2) of 
Part 2 of Schedule 2 to the Regulated Activities 
Order applies; 
Page 10 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
internal 
audit 
requirement 
s for SMCR 
firms 
investment 
research 
MiFID 
complaint 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
where the conditions in articles 7(3) and (4) of the MiFID Org 
Regulation paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article 7 of Schedule 2 to the 
Regulated Activities Order are met; 
[Note: article 44(1)(15) and section C of Annex I to MiFID and articles 
7 and 8 of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
any of the following requirements: 
… 
(c) 
article 24 of the MiFID Org Regulation (Internal audit) SYSC 6.2.1R; 
(d) 
article 24 of the MiFID Org Regulation (Internal audit) SYSC 6.2.1R 
(as applied in accordance with SYSC 1 Annex 1 2.8AR, SYSC 1 Annex 
1 3.2-AR, SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2-BR, SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2CR and SYSC 
1 Annex 1 3.3R); or 
… 
has the meaning in article 36(1) of the MiFID Org Regulation. 
research or other information recommending or suggesting an investment 
strategy, explicitly or implicitly, concerning one or several financial 
instruments or the issuers of financial instruments, including any opinion as to 
the present or future value or price of such instruments, intended for 
distribution channels or for the public, and in relation to which the following 
conditions are met: 
(a) 
the research or information is labelled or described as ‘investment 
research’ or in similar terms or is otherwise presented as an objective 
or independent explanation of the matters contained in the 
recommendation; 
(b) 
if the recommendation in question were made by a firm to a client, it 
would not constitute the provision of a personal recommendation. 
[Note: article 36(1) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, 
from, or on behalf of, a person about the provision of, or failure to provide, a 
financial service or a redress determination: 
(a) 
which alleges that the complainant has suffered (or may suffer) 
financial loss, material distress or material inconvenience; and 
(b) 
either: 
Page 11 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(i) 
to which article 26 of the MiFID Org Regulation applies; or is a 
complaint about: 
(A) 
the provision of investment services or ancillary 
services to a client by an investment firm; 
(B) 
the provision of one or more investment 
services to a client by a CRD credit institution; 
(C) 
selling structured deposits to clients, or advising 
clients on them, where the sale or advice is 
provided by an investment firm or a CRD credit 
institution; 
(D) 
the activities permitted by the UK provisions 
which implemented article 6(3) of the UCITS 
Directive when carried on by a collective portfolio 
management investment firm; and 
(E) 
the activities permitted by the UK provisions 
which implemented Article 6(4) of 
the AIFMD when carried on by a collective 
portfolio management investment firm; or 
(ii) 
which concerns the equivalent business of a third country 
investment firm. 
[Note: For the application of article 26 of the MiFID Org Regulation, see the 
UK provisions which implemented articles 1(1), 1(3), 1(4), 39 and 41 of 
MiFID, article 1 of the MiFID Org Regulation, DISP 1.1A.3G and DISP 
1.1A.4G] 
[Note: a MiFID complaint which falls within the jurisdiction of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is a complaint] 
non-
an investment recommendation that a does not meet the conditions set out in 
independent 
research 
article 36(1) of the MiFID Org Regulation does not constitute investment 
research. 
[Note: article 36(1) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
outsourcing 
… 
[Note: article 2(3) of the MiFID Org Regulation and article 13(28) of the 
Solvency II Directive] 
periodic 
statement 
a report which a firm is required to provide to a client pursuant to: 
… 
Page 12 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(b) 
article 60(1) of the MiFID Org Regulation COBS 16A.4.1R where the 
firm is carrying on MiFID business; MiFID, equivalent third country 
or optional exemption business. 
(c) 
GEN 2.2.22AR and COBS 16A.4.1UK where the firm is carrying on 
the equivalent business of a third country investment firm; [deleted] 
(d) 
COBS 16A.1.2R and COBS 16A.4.1UK where the firm is carrying on 
MiFID optional exemption business. [deleted] 
[Note: see COBS 16A.4.1UK where article 60(1) of the MiFID Org 
Regulation is reproduced] 
personal 
recommend 
a-tion 
… 
[Note: article 2(1)(15) of the IDD, article 9 of the MiFID Org Regulation and 
article 53(1C) and 53(1D) of the Regulated Activities Order] 
… 
personal 
transaction 
a trade in a designated investment, or in COBS 11.7A only, a trade in a 
financial instrument, effected by or on behalf of a relevant person, where at 
least one of the following criteria are met: 
… 
[Note: article 16(2) of MiFID and article 28 of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
regulatory 
system 
(1) 
the arrangements for regulating a firm or other person in or under 
the Act, including the threshold conditions, the Principles and 
other rules, the Statements of Principle, codes and guidance, or in or 
under the CCA, and including any relevant provisions of a 
an onshored regulation such as those contained in the MiFID Org 
Regulation and the UK CRR. 
… 
relevant 
person 
… 
[Note: article 2(1) of the MiFID Org Regulation and article 3(3) of the 
UCITS implementing Directive] 
remuneration (1) 
(except where (2), (3) or (4) apply) any form of remuneration, 
including salaries, discretionary pension benefits and benefits of any 
kind. 
[Note: article 92(2) of CRD] 
(2) 
(in relation to those articles of the MiFID Org Regulation the 
common platform requirements as applied in accordance with SYSC 1 
Annex 1 2.8AR, SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2-AR, SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2­
Page 13 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
BR, SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2CR, SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.3R; SYSC 
19F.1.1R; SYSC 19F.1.3R, and SYSC 19F.1.4R and SYSC 19F.1.4AR) 
all forms of payments or financial or non-financial benefits provided 
directly or indirectly by a firm to relevant persons in the provision of 
one or more of designated investment business, ancillary 
activities and ancillary services to clients. 
[Note: article 2(5) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
retail market 
business 
… 
(3) 
… 
[Note: paragraphs (ii) to (iv) derive from article 57 of the MiFID Org 
Regulation] 
… 
risk control 
requirements 
for SMCR 
firms 
any of the following requirements: 
… 
(d) 
article 23 of the MiFID Org Regulation (Risk management) SYSC 
7.1.2-AR, SYSC 7.1.3R, SYSC 7.1.5R, SYSC 7.1.6R and SYSC 7.1.7R; 
(e) 
article 23(2) of the MiFID Org Regulation SYSC 7.1.6R and SYSC 
7.1.7R (as applied in accordance with SYSC 1 Annex 1 2.8AR, SYSC 
1 Annex 1 3.2-AR, SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2-BR, SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2CR 
and SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.3R); or 
… 
securities 
financing 
transaction 
(1) 
(in COBS, other than in relation to MiFID, equivalent third country 
or optional exemption business) an instance of stock lending or stock 
borrowing or the lending or borrowing of other financial instruments, 
a repurchase or reverse repurchase transaction, or a buy-sell back or 
sell-buy back transaction. 
(1A) 
(in COBS (in relation to MiFID, equivalent third country or optional 
exemption business), COLL, DEPP, EG, FEES and FUND) a 
transaction defined in article 3(11) of the Securities Financing 
Transactions Regulation as follows: 
(a) 
a repurchase transaction, as defined in article 3(9) of that 
regulation; 
Page 14 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(b) 
securities or commodities lending and securities or 
commodities borrowing as defined in article 3(7) of that 
regulation; 
(c) 
a buy-sell back transaction or sell-buy back transaction as 
defined in article 3(8) of that regulation; and 
(d) 
a margin lending transaction as defined in article 3(10) of that 
regulation. 
… 
senior 
management 
… 
(2) 
(in SYSC (except SYSC 4.3.2-AR, SYSC 4.3A, SYSC 7.1.6R, SYSC 
8.1.6-AR, SYSC 9.1.1BR, SYSC 10.1.6AAR, SYSC 19F and 
paragraph (1) of the definition of supervisory function) and in 
accordance with article 4(1)(10) of the UK CRR) those persons who 
are a natural person and who exercise executive functions in 
an institution and who are responsible and accountable to 
the management body for the day-to-day management of 
the institution. 
(3) 
(in SYSC 4.3.2-AR, SYSC 4.3A, SYSC 7.1.6R, SYSC 8.1.6-AR, SYSC 
9.1.1BR, SYSC 10.1.6AAR, SYSC 19F, paragraph (1) of the 
definition of supervisory function and COBS 2.3B) 
those persons who are a natural person, who exercise executive 
functions in common platform firms and who are responsible and 
accountable to the management body for the day-to-day management 
of the firm, including for the implementation of the policies 
concerning the distribution of services and products to clients by it 
and its personnel. 
[Note: article 4.1(37) of MiFID] 
… 
small and 
medium-sized 
enterprise or 
SME 
(1) 
(in MAR 5): 
(a) 
companies that had an average market capitalisation of less 
than €200,000,000 based on end-year quotes for the previous 
three 3 calendar years.; 
(b) 
an issuer whose shares have been admitted to trading for less 
than 3 years where its market capitalisation is below 
€200,000,000 based on any of the following: 
Page 15 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(i) 
the last closing share price of the first year of trading, if 
its shares have been admitted to trading for less than 1 
year; 
(ii) 
the last closing share price of the first share of trading, 
if its shares have been admitted to trading for more 
than 1 year but less than 2 years; 
(iii) 
the average of the last closing share prices of the first 2 
years of trading, if its shares have been admitted to 
trading for more than 2 years but less than 3 years. 
(c) 
an issuer that has no equity instrument traded on any trading 
venue if the nominal value of its debt issuances over the 
previous calendar year, on all trading venues across the United 
Kingdom, does not exceed €50,000,000. 
… 
suitability 
report 
a report which a firm must provide to its client which, among other things, 
explains why the firm has concluded that a recommended transaction is 
suitable for the client and which is provided pursuant to: 
… 
(b) 
article 54(12) of the MiFID Org Regulation COBS 9A.3.3R where 
the firm is carrying on MiFID business MiFID, equivalent third 
country or optional exemption business; 
(c) 
GEN 2.2.22AR and COBS 9A.3.3UK where the firm is carrying on 
the equivalent business of a third country investment firm; [deleted] 
(d) 
COBS 9A.1.2R and COBS 9A.3.3UK where the firm is carrying on 
MiFID optional exemption business; or [deleted] 
… 
supervisory 
function 
(1) 
any function within a common platform firm that is responsible for 
the supervision of its senior personnel senior management. 
… 
third party 
prospectus 
… 
[Note: recital 73 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
website 
conditions 
the following conditions: 
… 
Page 16 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(2) 
the client must specifically consent to the provision of that 
information in that form (in respect of the provision of information to 
a client in relation to MiFID, equivalent third country or optional 
exemption business pursuant to rules in COBS 4.5A.9R, COBS 
6.1ZA, COBS 8A, COBS 11.2A.25R or COBS 14.3A, only in the case 
of if the client is a retail client if the relevant rule derives from the 
MiFID Org Regulation); 
… 
[Note: article 23(5) of the IDD, article 3 of the MiFID Org Regulation and 
article 38(2) of the KII Regulation] 
Delete the following definitions. The text is not shown struck through. 
MiFID Org 
the UK version of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/565 of 
Regulation 
25 April 2016 supplementing MiFID of the European Parliament and of 
the Council as regards organisational requirements and operating 
conditions for investment firms and defined terms for the purposes of that 
Directive, which is part of UK law by virtue of the EUWA. 
MiFID Org 
a firm to which the MiFID Org Regulation is directly applicable. 
Regulation firm 
Page 17 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
Annex B 
Amendments to the Senior Management Arrangements, Systems and Controls 
sourcebook (SYSC) 
In this Annex, underlining indicates new text and striking through indicates deleted text, 
unless otherwise stated. 
1 
Application and purpose 
… 
1 Annex 1 
Detailed application of SYSC 
… 
Part 2 
Application of the common platform requirements (SYSC 4 to 10) 
Who? 
… 
2.7A 
G 
… 
2.7B 
R 
(1) 
Subject to SYSC 1 Annex 1 2.17R, the common platform 
requirements do not apply to a Gibraltar-based investment 
firm. 
(2) 
A Gibraltar-based investment firm, when carrying on what 
would otherwise be MiFID business, must comply with 
the: 
(a) 
common platforms requirements on financial crime; 
and 
(b) 
common platform record-keeping requirements in 
accordance with SYSC 1 Annex 1 2.17R. 
… 
What? 
… 
Page 18 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
2.8A 
R 
(1) 
Subject to (2), (3) and (5), in SYSC 1 Annex 1 
2.8R, articles 1(2), 21 to 25, 30 to 32 and 72 of the MiFID 
Org Regulation (including any relevant definitions in 
the Glossary, MiFIR and the MiFID Org Regulation) apply 
as if they were rules or guidance in accordance with Part 3 
(Tables summarising the application of the common 
platform requirements to different types of firm) to 
a firm’s carrying on of the business set out in SYSC 1 
Annex 1 2.8R which is not MiFID business or a structured 
deposits regulated activity. [deleted] 
(1A) 
Subject to (2), (3) and (6), articles 33 to 35 of the MiFID 
Org Regulation (including any relevant definitions in 
the Glossary, MiFIR and the MiFID Org Regulation) apply 
as if they were rules or guidance in accordance with Part 3 
(Tables summarising the application of the common 
platform requirements to different types of firm) to 
a firm’s carrying on of the business set out in SYSC 
10.1.1R which is not MiFID business or a structured 
deposits regulated activity. [deleted] 
(2) 
References in Column (1) to a word or phrase used in 
the MiFID Org Regulation for the purpose of (1) have the 
meaning indicated in Column (2) of the table below: 
(1) 
(2) 
“ancillary 
services” 
ancillary services or ancillary 
activities associated with 
the firm’s regulated activities 
“client” and 
“potential 
client” 
client 
“competent 
authority” 
FCA 
“investment 
firm” and 
“firm” 
firm 
“investment 
service” and 
“investment 
designated investment business 
Page 19 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
services and 
activities” 
“portfolio 
management” 
and “portfolio 
management 
service” 
managing investments 
“shall” 
must [deleted] 
… 
(4) 
This rule does not apply to a collective portfolio 
management investment firm in relation to 
the firm’s business other than its MiFID business. [deleted] 
(5) 
The requirements in article 72 of the MiFID Org 
Regulation SYSC 9.1.1B and SYSC 9.1.2-AR do not apply 
to a firm to the extent that SYSC 9.1.2CR applies to 
the firm. 
(6) 
SYSC 1 Annex 1 2.8AR(1A) does not apply to a firm to the 
extent that SYSC 10A applies to the firm (see SYSC 1 
Annex 1 3.1AG). [deleted] 
2.8B 
G 
The purpose of SYSC 1 Annex 1 2.8R and SYSC 1 Annex 1 2.8AR 
is that the common platform organisational requirements and 
the common platform requirements on conflicts of interest also 
apply when carrying on any of the activities listed in SYSC 1 
Annex 1 2.8R or SYSC 10.1.1R respectively even where they do 
not involve investment services and/or activities and, where 
relevant, ancillary services (unless provided otherwise within a 
specific rule). [deleted] 
2.8C 
G 
SYSC 1 Annex 1 2.8AR(3) has the effect that, where the 
requirement in the MiFID Org Regulation that is a common 
platform organisational requirement or a common platform 
requirement on conflicts of interest includes a reference or cross 
reference to another part of the MiFID Org Regulation, that 
reference or cross reference is given the same meaning as for the 
purposes of SYSC 1 Annex 1 2.8AR. [deleted] 
2.8D 
G 
For the purpose of SYSC 1 Annex 1 2.8AR, a firm should apply 
any guidance published by the FCA that assists with interpreting 
Page 20 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
the definitions in MiFID, MiFIR and the MiFID Org Regulation. 
[deleted] 
… 
2.10 
R 
The provisions on record-keeping in SYSC 9, and articles 21 and 
72 of the MiFID Org Regulation SYSC 4.1.1-AR, SYSC 5.1.1R, 
SYSC 5.1.6R, SYSC 5.1.12R, SYSC 5.1.13R and SYSC 5.1.14R, 
apply as set out in SYSC 1 Annex 1.2.8R and SYSC 1 Annex 
1.2.8AR, except that they only apply to the carrying on 
of ancillary activities that are performed in relation to: 
(1) 
designated investment business; 
(2) 
home finance activity; 
(3) 
insurance distribution activity; 
(4) 
credit-related regulated activity. 
… 
2.14B 
G 
Firms should refer to articles 38 to 42 of the MiFID Org 
Regulation COBS 11A.1 (Underwriting and placing) for additional 
organisational requirements for underwriting and placing. 
… 
Actions for damages 
2.19 
R 
A contravention of a rule in the common platform 
requirements and in SYSC 10A (Recording telephone 
conversations and electronic communications) does not give rise 
to a right of action by a private person under section 138D of the 
Act (and each of those rules is specified under section 138D(3) of 
the Act as a provision giving rise to no such right of action). 
Part 3 
Tables summarising the application of the common platform 
requirements to different types of firm 
Page 21 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
3.1 
G 
The common platform requirements apply as described in the 
following table (subject to the provisions in Part 2 of this Annex 
(Application of the common platform requirements)). 
Type of firm 
Common platform 
requirements 
Common platform firm 
SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2G, SYSC 1 
Annex 1 3.2-AR and SYSC 1 
Annex 1 3.2-BR 
… 
… 
… 
Common platform firm 
3.2 
G 
For a common platform firm (other than a dormant asset fund 
operator not subject to MiFID): 
(1) 
SYSC 4 to SYSC 10 apply in accordance with Column A in 
Table A below; and. 
(2) 
articles 1(2), 21 to 25, 30 to 35 and 72 of the MiFID Org 
Regulation are directly applicable to the firm. [deleted] 
… 
3.2-A 
R 
For a common platform firm (other than a dormant asset fund 
operator not subject to MiFID), articles 1(2), 21 to 25, 30 to 
35 and 72 of the MiFID Org Regulation apply to 
the firm’s business other than MiFID business or structured 
deposits regulated activities as if the MiFID Org 
Regulation applied to the firm as rules in accordance with SYSC 1 
Annex 1 2.8R and SYSC 1 Annex 1 2.8AR. [deleted] 
3.2-B 
R 
For a common platform firm that is a dormant asset fund 
operator and is not subject to MiFID: 
(1) 
SYSC 4 to SYSC 10 apply in accordance with Column A in 
Table A below; and 
Page 22 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(2) 
articles 1(2), 21 to 25, 30 to 35 and 72 of the MiFID Org 
Regulation apply as if the MiFID Org Regulation applied 
to the firm as rules in accordance with SYSC 1 Annex 
1 2.8R and SYSC 1 Annex 1 2.8AR. [deleted] 
… 
MiFID optional exemption firm and a third country firm 
3.2C 
R 
For a MiFID optional exemption firm and a third country firm: 
(1) 
SYSC 4 to SYSC 10 apply as rules or as guidance in 
accordance with Table B below in the following way: 
(a) 
where a rule is shown modified as ‘Guidance’, it 
should be read as guidance (as if “should” appeared 
in that rule instead of “must”); and 
(b) 
the provision should be applied in a proportionate 
manner, taking into account the nature, scale and 
complexity of the firm’s business; and. 
(2) 
articles 1(2), 21 to 25, 30 to 32 and 72 of the MiFID Org 
Regulation apply as if the MiFID Org Regulation applied 
to the firm as rules (in accordance with SYSC 1 Annex 
1 2.8R and SYSC 1 Annex 1 2.8AR) or as guidance in 
accordance with Part 1 of Table C below. Part 2 of Table 
C sets out those articles of the MiFID Org Regulation. 
[deleted] 
… 
Other firms 
… 
3.3 
R 
For all other firms: 
(1) 
SYSC 4 to SYSC 10 apply as rules or as guidance in 
accordance with Column B in Table A below in the 
following way: 
Page 23 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(a) 
where a rule is shown modified in Column B as 
‘Guidance’, it should be read as guidance (as if 
“should” appeared in that rule instead of 
“must”); and 
(b) 
the provision should be applied in a proportionate 
manner, taking into account the nature, scale and 
complexity of the firm’s business; and. 
(2) 
articles 1(2), 21 to 25, 30 to 35 and 72 of the MiFID Org 
Regulation do not apply. [deleted] 
… 
Table A: Application of the common platform requirements in SYSC 4 to 
SYSC 10 
Provision 
SYSC 4 
COLUMN A 
Application to a 
common 
platform firm 
other than to a 
UCITS 
investment firm 
COLUMN A+ 
Application to a 
UCITS 
management 
company 
COLUMN 
A++ 
Application to 
a full-scope 
UK AIFM of 
an authorised 
AIF 
COLUMN B 
Application to all 
other firms apart 
from insurers, 
UK 
ISPVs, managing 
agents, the 
Society, full-
scope UK 
AIFMs of 
unauthorised 
AIFs, MiFID 
optional 
exemption firms 
and third country 
firms 
… 
SYSC 
4.1.1R 
… 
… 
… 
… 
SYSC 
4.1.1-AR 
Rule 
Rule for a 
UCITS 
investment firm; 
Not 
applicable 
Not applicable 
Page 24 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
otherwise not 
applicable 
… 
SYSC 
4.1.7R 
Rule CRR 
firm for a only 
Rule 
Not 
applicable 
Guidance 
… 
SYSC 
4.3.2R 
… 
… 
… 
… 
SYSC 
4.3.2-AR 
Rule 
Rule for a 
UCITS 
investment firm 
in relation to its 
MiFID 
business; 
otherwise not 
applicable 
Not 
applicable 
Not applicable 
… 
Provision 
SYSC 5 
COLUMN A 
Application to a 
common 
platform firm 
other than to a 
UCITS 
investment firm 
COLUMN A+ 
Application to a 
UCITS 
management 
company 
COLUMN 
A++ 
Application to 
a full-scope 
UK AIFM of 
an authorised 
AIF 
COLUMN B 
Application to all 
other firms apart 
from insurers, 
UK 
ISPVs, managing 
agents, the 
Society, full-
scope UK AIFMs 
of unauthorised 
AIFs, MiFID 
optional 
exemption firms 
and third country 
firms 
… 
Page 25 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
SYSC 
5.1.1R 
Not applicable 
Rule 
Rule 
Not applicable Rule 
… 
SYSC 
5.1.6R 
Not applicable 
Rule 
Rule 
Guidance 
Guidance 
… 
SYSC 
5.1.12R 
Not applicable 
Rule 
Rule 
Not applicable Guidance 
… 
SYSC 
5.1.13R 
Not applicable 
Rule 
Rule 
Not applicable Rule 
SYSC 
5.1.14R 
Not applicable 
Rule 
Rule 
Not applicable Guidance 
… 
Provision 
SYSC 6 
COLUMN A 
Application to a 
common 
platform firm 
other than to a 
UCITS 
investment firm 
COLUMN A+ 
Application to a 
UCITS 
management 
company 
COLUMN 
A++ 
Application to 
a full-scope 
UK AIFM of 
an authorised 
AIF 
COLUMN B 
Application to all 
other firms apart 
from insurers, 
UK 
ISPVs, managing 
agents, the 
Society, full-
scope UK 
AIFMs of 
unauthorised 
AIFs, MiFID 
optional 
exemption firms 
and third country 
firms 
Page 26 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
… 
SYSC 
6.1.2R 
… 
… 
… 
… 
SYSC 
6.1.2-AR 
Rule 
Rule for a 
UCITS 
investment firm 
in relation to its 
MiFID 
business; 
otherwise not 
applicable 
Not applicable Not applicable 
… 
SYSC 
6.1.3R 
… 
… 
… 
… 
SYSC 
6.1.3-AR 
Rule 
Rule for a 
UCITS 
investment firm 
in relation to its 
MiFID 
business; 
otherwise not 
applicable 
Not applicable Not applicable 
… 
SYSC 
6.1.4R 
… 
… 
… 
… 
SYSC 
6.1.4-AAR 
Rule 
Rule for a 
UCITS 
investment 
firm; otherwise 
not applicable 
Not applicable Not applicable 
… 
SYSC 
6.1.5R 
… 
… 
… 
… 
Page 27 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
SYSC 
6.1.5AR 
Rule 
Rule for a 
UCITS 
investment 
firm; otherwise 
not applicable 
Not applicable Not applicable 
… 
SYSC 
6.2.1R 
Not applicable 
Rule 
Rule 
Not applicable Guidance, but 
applies as a rule 
to an operator of 
an electronic 
system in 
relation to 
lending 
… 
Provision 
SYSC 7 
COLUMN A 
Application to 
a common 
platform firm 
other than to a 
UCITS 
investment 
firm 
COLUMN A+ 
Application to a 
UCITS 
management 
company 
COLUMN 
A++ 
Application to 
a full-scope 
UK AIFM of 
an authorised 
AIF 
COLUMN B 
Application to all 
other firms apart 
from insurers, 
UK 
ISPVs, managing 
agents, the 
Society, full-
scope UK 
AIFMs of 
unauthorised 
AIFs, MiFID 
optional 
exemption firms 
and third country 
firms 
… 
SYSC 
7.1.2R 
Not applicable Rule for a UCITS 
investment 
firm in relation to 
its non-MiFID 
business; 
otherwise 
guidance 
Not applicable Guidance, but 
applies as a rule 
to an operator of 
an electronic 
system in 
relation to 
lending 
Page 28 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
SYSC 
7.1.2-AR 
Rule 
Not applicable 
Not applicable Not applicable 
… 
SYSC 
Not applicable Rule for a UCITS Not applicable Guidance, but 
7.1.3R 
Rule 
investment 
firm in relation to 
its non-MiFID 
business; 
otherwise 
guidance 
applies as a rule 
for an operator 
of an electronic 
system in 
relation to 
lending 
… 
SYSC 
Not applicable Rule for a UCITS Not applicable Guidance, but 
7.1.5R 
Rule 
investment 
firm in relation to 
its non-MiFID 
business; 
otherwise 
guidance 
applies as a rule 
to an operator of 
an electronic 
system in 
relation to 
lending 
SYSC 
Not applicable Rule for a UCITS Not applicable Guidance, but 
7.1.6R 
Rule 
investment 
firm in relation to 
its non-MiFID 
business; 
otherwise 
guidance 
applies as a rule 
to an operator of 
an electronic 
system in 
relation to 
lending 
SYSC 
Not applicable Rule for a UCITS Not applicable Guidance, but 
7.1.7R 
Rule 
investment 
firm in relation to 
its non-MiFID 
business; 
otherwise 
guidance 
applies as a rule 
to an operator of 
an electronic 
system in 
relation to 
lending 
… 
Provision 
SYSC 8 
COLUMN A 
Application to 
a common 
COLUMN A+ 
Application to a 
UCITS 
COLUMN A++ 
Application to a 
full-scope UK 
COLUMN B 
Application to all 
other firms apart 
Page 29 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
platform firm 
other than to a 
UCITS 
investment 
firm 
management 
company 
AIFM of an 
authorised AIF 
from insurers, 
UK 
ISPVs, managing 
agents, the 
Society, full-
scope UK 
AIFMs of 
unauthorised 
AIFs, MiFID 
optional 
exemption firms 
and third country 
firms 
… 
SYSC 
8.1.4R 
… 
… 
… 
… 
SYSC 
8.1.4AR 
Rule 
Rule for 
a UCITS 
investment firm; 
otherwise not 
applicable 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
SYSC 
8.1.5R 
Not applicable 
Rule 
Rule for 
a UCITS 
investment firm; 
otherwise 
guidance 
Not applicable 
Guidance 
… 
SYSC 
8.1.6R 
… 
… 
… 
… 
SYSC 
8.1.6-AR 
Rule 
Rule for 
a UCITS 
investment firm; 
otherwise not 
applicable 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
… 
Page 30 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
SYSC 
Not applicable Rule for 
Not applicable 
Guidance 
8.1.7R 
Rule 
a UCITS 
investment 
firm in relation 
to its non-
MiFID 
business; 
otherwise 
guidance 
SYSC 
Not applicable Rule for 
Not applicable 
Guidance 
8.1.8R 
Rule 
a UCITS 
investment 
firm in relation 
to its non-
MiFID 
business; 
otherwise 
guidance 
SYSC 
Not applicable Rule for 
Not applicable 
Guidance 
8.1.9R 
Rule 
a UCITS 
investment 
firm in relation 
to its non-
MiFID 
business; 
otherwise 
guidance 
SYSC 
Not applicable Rule for 
Not applicable 
Guidance 
8.1.10R 
Rule 
a UCITS 
investment 
firm in relation 
to its non-
MiFID 
business; 
otherwise 
guidance 
SYSC 
8.1.11R 
… 
… 
… 
… 
SYSC 
Rule 
Rule for 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
8.1.11-CR 
a UCITS 
investment firm 
in relation to its 
Page 31 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
MiFID 
business; 
otherwise not 
applicable 
SYSC 
8.1.11-BR 
Rule 
Rule for 
a UCITS 
investment firm 
in relation to its 
MiFID 
business; 
otherwise not 
applicable 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
SYSC 
8.1.11-AG 
Guidance 
Guidance for 
a UCITS 
investment firm 
in relation to its 
MiFID 
business; 
otherwise not 
applicable 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
… 
Provision 
SYSC 9 
COLUMN A 
Application to 
a common 
platform firm 
other than to a 
UCITS 
investment 
firm 
COLUMN A+ 
Application to a 
UCITS 
management 
company 
COLUMN A++ 
Application to a 
full-scope UK 
AIFM of an 
authorised AIF 
COLUMN B 
Application to all 
other firms apart 
from insurers, 
UK 
ISPVs, managing 
agents, the 
Society, full-
scope UK AIFMs 
of unauthorised 
AIFs, MiFID 
optional 
exemption firms 
and third country 
firms 
… 
SYSC 
9.1.1AR 
… 
… 
… 
… 
Page 32 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
SYSC 
9.1.1BR 
Rule applies 
only in 
relation 
Rule applies 
only in relation 
to MiFID 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
to MiFID 
business 
business of 
a UCITS 
investment firm 
… 
SYSC 
9.1.2R 
… 
… 
… 
… 
SYSC 9.1.2­
AR 
Rule applies 
only in 
relation 
Rule applies 
only in relation 
to MiFID 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
to MiFID 
business 
business of 
a UCITS 
investment firm 
… 
Provision 
SYSC 10 
Column A 
Application to 
a common 
platform firm 
other than to a 
UCITS 
investment 
firm 
COLUMN A+ 
Application to 
a UCITS 
management 
company 
COLUMN A++ 
Application to 
a full-scope UK 
AIFM of an 
authorised AIF 
Column B 
Application to all 
other firms apart 
from insurers, 
UK 
ISPVs, managing 
agents, the 
Society, full-
scope UK 
AIFMs of 
unauthorised 
AIFs, MiFID 
optional 
exemption firms 
and third country 
firms 
… 
SYSC 
10.1.4R 
Not 
applicable 
Rule 
Rule, but not 
applicable in 
relation to 
Not applicable 
Guidance - but 
applies as a rule 
in relation to the 
Page 33 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
insurance 
production or 
distribution 
arrangement of 
activities 
investment 
research, or the 
production or 
dissemination of 
non-independent 
research, in 
accordance with 
COBS 12.2 
Not applicable in 
relation to 
insurance 
distribution 
activities or 
funeral plan 
distribution 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
SYSC 
Not 
Rule 
Rule in relation Guidance - but 
10.1.6R 
applicable 
Rule 
to insurance 
distribution 
activities. 
Otherwise not 
applicable 
applies as a rule: 
(a) in relation to 
the production or 
arrangement of 
investment 
research, or the 
production or 
dissemination of 
non-independent 
research, in 
accordance with 
COBS 12.2; and 
(b) in relation to 
insurance 
distribution 
activities and 
funeral plan 
distribution 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
SYSC 
Not 
Rule in relation Rule in relation Rule in relation 
10.1.6AAR applicable 
to insurance 
to insurance 
to insurance 
Rule 
distribution 
distribution 
distribution 
activities 
activities 
activities and 
funeral plan 
distribution 
Page 34 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
SYSC 
Rule in 
Rule 
Rule in relation Rule 
10.1.8R 
relation to 
insurance 
distribution 
activities. 
Otherwise, 
not applicable 
to insurance 
distribution 
activities. 
Otherwise, not 
applicable 
SYSC 
10.1.9G 
Not 
applicable 
Guidance 
Guidance 
Not applicable 
Guidance 
SYSC 
Not 
Rule in relation Rule in relation Guidance - but 
10.1.9AR 
applicable 
Rule 
to insurance 
distribution 
activities. 
Otherwise, not 
applicable 
to insurance 
distribution 
activities. 
Otherwise, not 
applicable 
applies as a rule 
in relation to 
insurance 
distribution 
activities and 
funeral plan 
distribution 
SYSC 
Not 
Rule 
Rule in relation Guidance - but 
10.1.10R 
applicable 
Rule 
to insurance 
distribution 
activities. 
Otherwise, not 
applicable 
applies as a rule: 
(a) in relation to 
the production or 
arrangement of 
investment 
research, or the 
production or 
dissemination of 
non-independent 
research, in 
accordance with 
COBS 12.2; and 
(b) in relation to 
insurance 
distribution 
activities and 
funeral plan 
distribution 
SYSC10.1. 
Not 
Rule 
Rule in relation Guidance - but 
11R 
applicable 
Rule 
to insurance 
distribution 
activities. 
applies as a rule: 
(a) in relation to 
the production or 
arrangement of 
Page 35 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
Otherwise, not 
investment 
applicable 
research, or the 
production or 
dissemination of 
non-independent 
research, in 
accordance with 
COBS 12.2; and 
(b) in relation to 
insurance 
distribution 
activities and 
funeral plan 
distribution 
… 
SYSC 
Not 
Rule in relation Rule in relation Rule in relation 
10.1.11AA applicable 
to insurance 
to insurance 
to insurance 
R 
Rule 
distribution 
activities 
distribution 
activities 
distribution 
activities and 
funeral plan 
distribution 
… 
Table B: Application of the common platform requirements in SYSC 4 to 10 
to MiFID optional exemption firms and third country firms 
Provision 
COLUMN A 
MiFID optional 
exemption firms 
SYSC 4 
COLUMN B 
Third country firms 
… 
SYSC 4.1.1R 
… 
… 
SYSC 4.1.1-AR 
Rule 
(1)(a): Guidance 
(1)(b), (c), (d) and first 
paragraph: Rule 
(2): Rule 
Page 36 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
Provision 
COLUMN A 
MiFID optional 
exemption firms 
SYSC 4 
COLUMN B 
Third country firms 
(3) to (5): Guidance 
… 
SYSC 4.3.2R 
… 
… 
SYSC 4.3.2-AR 
Guidance 
(1) and (2): Rule 
(3): Guidance 
… 
Provision 
COLUMN A 
MiFID optional exemption 
firms 
SYSC 5 
COLUMN B 
Third country firms 
… 
SYSC 5.1.1R 
Not applicable 
Rule 
Not applicable 
Rule 
… 
SYSC 5.1.6R 
Not applicable 
Rule 
Not applicable 
Guidance 
… 
SYSC 5.1.12R 
Not applicable 
Rule 
Not applicable 
Guidance 
… 
Page 37 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
SYSC 5.1.13R 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
Rule 
Rule 
SYSC 5.1.14R 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
Rule 
Guidance 
… 
Provision 
COLUMN A 
MiFID optional exemption 
firms 
SYSC 6 
COLUMN B 
Third country firms 
… 
SYSC 6.1.2R 
… 
… 
SYSC 6.1.2-AR 
Guidance 
Guidance 
… 
SYSC 6.1.3R 
… 
… 
SYSC 6.1.3-AR 
Guidance 
Guidance 
… 
SYSC 6.1.4R 
… 
… 
SYSC 6.1.4-AAR 
Guidance 
(1), (3), (4) and (5): 
Guidance 
(2): Rule 
… 
SYSC 6.1.5R 
… 
… 
SYSC 6.1.5AR 
Guidance 
Guidance 
Page 38 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
… 
SYSC 6.2.1R 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
Guidance 
Guidance 
… 
Provision 
COLUMN A 
MiFID optional exemption 
firms 
SYSC 7 
COLUMN B 
Third country firms 
… 
SYSC 7.1.2R 
… 
… 
SYSC 7.1.2-AR 
Guidance 
Guidance 
… 
SYSC 7.1.3R 
Not applicable 
Guidance 
Not applicable 
Guidance 
… 
SYSC 7.1.5R 
Not applicable 
Guidance 
Not applicable 
Guidance 
SYSC 7.1.6R 
Not applicable 
Guidance 
Not applicable 
Guidance 
SYSC 7.1.7R 
Not applicable 
Guidance 
Not applicable 
Guidance 
… 
Page 39 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
Provision 
COLUMN A 
MiFID optional exemption 
firms 
SYSC 8 
COLUMN B 
Third country firms 
… 
SYSC 8.1.4R 
… 
… 
SYSC 8.1.4AR 
Guidance 
Guidance 
SYSC 8.1.5R 
Not applicable 
Guidance 
Not applicable 
Guidance 
… 
… 
… 
SYSC 8.1.6R 
… 
… 
SYSC 8.1.6-AR 
Rule 
Rule 
… 
SYSC 8.1.7R 
Not applicable 
Guidance 
Not applicable 
Guidance 
SYSC 8.1.8R 
Not applicable 
Guidance 
Not applicable 
Guidance 
SYSC 8.1.9R 
Not applicable 
Guidance 
Not applicable 
Guidance 
SYSC 8.1.10R 
Not applicable 
Guidance 
Not applicable 
Guidance 
… 
SYSC 8.1.11R 
… 
… 
Page 40 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
SYSC 8.1.11-CR 
Guidance 
Guidance 
SYSC 8.1.11-BR 
Rule 
Guidance 
SYSC 8.1.11-AG 
Guidance 
Guidance 
… 
Provision 
COLUMN A 
MiFID optional exemption 
firms 
SYSC 9 
COLUMN B 
Third country firms 
… 
SYSC 9.1.1AR 
… 
… 
SYSC 9.1.1BR 
Rule 
Guidance 
… 
SYSC 9.1.2R 
… 
… 
SYSC 9.1.2-AR 
Rule 
Guidance 
… 
Provision 
COLUMN A 
MiFID optional exemption 
firms 
COLUMN B 
Third country firms 
SYSC 10 
… 
SYSC 10.1.6AAR 
Rule in relation to insurance 
distribution activities 
Rule Guidance – but 
applies as a rule in 
relation to insurance 
distribution activities 
Page 41 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
… 
SYSC 10.1.9AR 
Rule in relation to insurance 
distribution activities. 
Otherwise not applicable 
Rule in relation 
to insurance 
distribution activities. 
Otherwise 
not applicable 
… 
SYSC 10.1.11AAR 
Rule in relation to insurance 
distribution activities 
Rule Guidance, but 
applies as a rule in 
relation to insurance 
distribution activities 
… 
Table C is deleted in its entirety. The deleted text is not reproduced in this instrument. 
Amend the following as shown. 
4 
General organisational requirements 
4.1 
General requirements 
… 
Application to a common platform firm 
4.1.-2 
G 
For a common platform firm: 
(1) 
the MiFID Org Regulation applies, as summarised in SYSC 1 Annex 
1 3.2G, SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2-AR and SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2-BR; and 
[deleted] 
(2) 
the rules and guidance apply as set out in the table below: 
Subject 
Applicable rule or guidance 
General requirements 
SYSC 4.1-2G, SYSC 4.1.1R, SYSC 4.1.1CR, 
SYSC 4.1.1-AR, SYSC 4.1.2R, SYSC 
4.1.2AAR 
Business continuity 
SYSC 4.1.6R, SYSC 4.1.7R, SYSC 4.1.8G 
Page 42 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
Audit committee 
SYSC 4.1.11G, SYSC 4.1.13G, SYSC 
4.1.14G 
Persons who effectively direct 
the business 
SYSC 4.2.1R, SYSC 4.2.2R, SYSC 4.2.3G, 
SYSC 4.2.4G, SYSC 4.2.5G, SYSC 4.2.6R 
Responsibility of senior 
personnel 
SYSC 4.3.2-AR, SYSC 4.3.3G 
Management body 
SYSC 4.3A.-1R to SYSC 4.3A.7R 
Nominations committee 
SYSC 4.3A.8R to SYSC 4.3A.11R 
Application to a MiFID optional exemption firm and to a third country firm 
4.1.-1 
G 
For a MiFID optional exemption firm and a third country firm: 
(1) 
the rules and guidance in this chapter apply to them as if they were 
rules or as guidance in accordance with SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2CR(1); 
and. 
(2) 
those articles of the MiFID Org Regulation in SYSC 1 Annex 1 
2.8AR and 3.2CR apply to them as if they were rules or as guidance 
in accordance with SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2CR(2). [deleted] 
General requirements 
4.1.1 
R 
… 
4.1.1-A 
R 
(1) 
A common platform firm must, taking into account the nature, scale 
and complexity of its business, and the nature and range of the 
activities carried on in the course of its designated investment 
business, comply with the following organisational requirements: 
(a) 
establish, implement and maintain decision-making 
procedures and an organisational structure which clearly and 
in a documented manner specifies reporting lines and 
allocates functions and responsibilities; 
(b) 
establish, implement and maintain adequate internal control 
mechanisms designed to secure compliance with decisions 
and procedures at all levels of the common platform firm; 
(c) 
establish, implement and maintain effective internal reporting 
and communication of information at all relevant levels of 
the common platform firm; and 
(d) 
maintain adequate and orderly records of its business and 
internal organisation; 
Page 43 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(2) 
A common platform firm must establish, implement and maintain 
systems and procedures that are adequate to safeguard the security, 
integrity and confidentiality of information, taking into account the 
nature of the information in question. 
(3) 
A common platform firm must establish, implement and maintain an 
adequate business continuity policy aimed at ensuring, in the case of 
an interruption to its systems and procedures, the preservation of 
essential data and functions and the maintenance of its designated 
investment business, or, where that is not possible, the timely 
recovery of such data and functions and the timely resumption of its 
designated investment business. 
(4) 
A common platform firm must establish, implement and maintain 
accounting policies and procedures that enable it, at the request of 
the FCA, to deliver in a timely manner to the FCA financial reports 
which reflect a true and fair view of its financial position and which 
comply with all applicable accounting standards and rules. 
(5) 
A common platform firm must monitor and, on a regular basis, 
evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of its systems, internal 
control mechanisms and arrangements established in accordance 
with SYSC 4.1.1-AR(1) to (4), SYSC 5.1.1R, SYSC 5.1.6R, SYSC 
5.1.12R, SYSC 5.1.13R and SYSC 5.1.14R, and take appropriate 
measures to address any deficiencies. 
… 
4.1.2 
R 
For a common platform firm, the arrangements, processes and mechanisms 
referred to in SYSC 4.1.1R must be comprehensive and proportionate to the 
nature, scale and complexity of the risks inherent in the business model and 
of the common platform firm’s activities and must take into account the 
specific technical criteria described in article 21(3) of the MiFID Org 
Regulation SYSC 4.1.1-AR(3), SYSC 5.1.7R, SYSC 7 and whichever of the 
following is applicable: 
… 
… 
Business continuity 
… 
4.1.8 
G 
The matters dealt with in a business continuity policy should include: 
… 
(6) 
regular testing of the business continuity policy in an appropriate 
and proportionate manner in accordance with SYSC 4.1.10R and for 
Page 44 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
a common platform firm with article 21(5) of the MiFID Org 
Regulation SYSC 4.1.1-AR(5) and SYSC 5.1.14R. 
… 
4.3 
Responsibility of senior personnel 
… 
4.3.2 
R 
… 
4.3.2-A 
R 
(1) 
A common platform firm, when allocating functions internally, must 
ensure that senior management and, where appropriate, the 
supervisory function, are responsible for ensuring that the firm 
complies with its obligations under the UK law on markets in 
financial instruments. In particular, senior management and, where 
appropriate, the supervisory function must assess and periodically 
review the effectiveness of the policies, arrangements and 
procedures put in place to comply with the firm’s obligations under 
the UK law on markets in financial instruments, and take appropriate 
measures to address any deficiencies. 
(2) 
When allocating significant functions among senior management 
under SYSC 4.3.2-AR(1), a common platform firm must: 
(a) 
establish who is responsible for overseeing and maintaining 
the firm’s organisational requirements; and 
(b) 
keep up-to-date records of such allocation. 
(3) 
A common platform firm must ensure that: 
(a) 
its senior management receive on a frequent basis, and at 
least annually, written reports on the matters covered by 
SYSC 6.1.2-AR, SYSC 6.1.3-AR, SYSC 6.1.4-AAR, SYSC 
6.1.5R, SYSC 6.2.1R, SYSC 7.1.2-AR, SYSC 7.1.3R and 
SYSC 7.1.5R to SYSC 7.1.7R, indicating in particular whether 
the appropriate remedial measures have been taken in the 
event of any deficiencies; and 
(b) 
the supervisory function, if any, receives on a regular basis 
written reports on the same matters. 
… 
5 
Employees, agents and other relevant persons 
5.1 
Skills, knowledge and expertise 
[Note: ESMA has also issued guidelines under article 16(3) of the ESMA 
Regulation covering certain aspects of the MiFID compliance function 
Page 45 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
requirements. See http://www.esma.europa.eu/content/Guidelines-certain­
aspects-MiFID-compliance-function-requirements.] 
Application to a common platform firm 
5.1.-2 
G 
For a common platform firm: 
(1) 
the MiFID Org Regulation applies, as summarised in SYSC 1 Annex 
1 3.2G, SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2-AR and SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2-BR; and 
[deleted] 
(2) 
the rules and guidance apply as set out in the table below: 
Subject 
Applicable rule or guidance 
Competent 
employees rule, 
knowledge and 
competence and 
segregation of 
functions 
SYSC 5.1.-2G, SYSC 5.1.1R, SYSC 5.1.2G to SYSC 
5.1.5AG, SYSC 5.1.5AAR, SYSC 5.1.5ABR, SYSC 
5.1.5ACG to SYSC 5.1.5AEG, SYSC 5.1.6R, SYSC 
5.1.7R, SYSC 5.1.8G to SYSC 5.1.11G, SYSC 5.1.12R, 
SYSC 5.1.13R, SYSC 5.1.14R 
… 
Application to an MiFID optional exemption firm and to a third country firm 
5.1.-1 
G 
For a MiFID optional exemption firm and a third country firm: 
(1) 
the rules and guidance in this chapter apply to them as if they were 
rules or as guidance in accordance with SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2CR(1); 
and. 
(2) 
those articles of the MiFID Org Regulation in SYSC 1 Annex 1 
2.8AR and 3.2CR apply to them as if they were rules or as guidance 
in accordance with SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2CR(2). [deleted] 
Competent employees rule 
5.1.1 
R 
A firm (other than a common platform firm) must employ personnel with the 
skills, knowledge and expertise necessary for the discharge of the 
responsibilities allocated to them. 
[Note: articles 12(1)(a) and 14(1)(c) of the UCITS Directive and article 5(1) 
of the UCITS implementing Directive] 
… 
Knowledge and competence 
… 
Page 46 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
5.1.5AB 
R 
A firm must ensure, and be able to demonstrate to the FCA, at the FCA’s 
request, that any relevant individuals possess the necessary knowledge and 
competence so as to ensure that the firm is able to meet its obligations 
related to information to clients, and the assessment of suitability and 
appropriateness and reporting to clients under: SYSC, COBS and PROD in 
relation to MiFID business. 
(1) 
those rules which implement articles 24 and 25 of MiFID (including 
those rules which implement related provisions under the MiFID 
Delegated Directive); and [deleted] 
(2) 
related provisions of the MiFID Org Regulation. [deleted] 
[Note: article 25(1) of MiFID] 
… 
Segregation of functions 
5.1.6 
R 
A common platform firm and a management company must ensure that the 
performance of multiple functions by its relevant persons does not and is 
not likely to prevent those persons from discharging any particular functions 
soundly, honestly and professionally. 
[Note: article 5(3) of the UCITS implementing Directive] 
… 
Awareness of procedures: management company and common platform firm 
5.1.12 
R 
A common platform firm and a management company must ensure that its 
relevant persons are aware of the procedures which must be followed for 
the proper discharge of their responsibilities. 
[Note: article 4(1)(b) of the UCITS implementing Directive] 
… 
General 
5.1.13 
R 
The systems, internal control mechanisms and arrangements established by 
a firm (other than a common platform firm) in accordance with this chapter 
must take into account the nature, scale and complexity of its business and 
the nature and range of financial services, claims management services and 
other activities undertaken in the course of that business. 
[Note: articles 4(1) final paragraph and 5(4) of the UCITS implementing 
Directive] 
5.1.14 
R 
A common platform firm and a management company must monitor and, on 
a regular basis, evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of its systems, 
Page 47 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
internal control mechanisms and arrangements established in accordance 
with this chapter, and take appropriate measures to address any deficiencies. 
[Note: article 4(5) of the UCITS implementing Directive] 
… 
6 
Compliance, internal audit and financial crime 
6.1 
Compliance 
… 
Application to a common platform firm 
6.1.-2 
G 
For a common platform firm: 
(1) 
the MiFID Org Regulation applies, as summarised in SYSC 1 Annex 
1 3.2G, SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2-AR and SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2-BR; and 
[deleted] 
(2) 
the rules and guidance apply as set out in the table below: 
Subject 
Applicable rule or guidance 
Adequate policy and 
procedures 
SYSC 6.1.-2G, SYSC 6.1.1R, SYSC 6.1.1AG, 
SYSC 6.1.2-AR 
Compliance function 
SYSC 6.1.3-AR, SYSC 6.1.4-AAR, SYSC 
6.1.4-AG, SYSC 6.1.4-CG, SYSC 6.1.5AR 
Internal audit 
SYSC 6.2.1R, SYSC 6.2.2G 
Financial crime 
SYSC 6.3.1R to SYSC 6.3.11G 
Application to an MiFID optional exemption firm and to a third country firm 
6.1.-1 
G 
For a MiFID optional exemption firm and a third country firm: 
(1) 
the rules and guidance in this chapter apply to them as if they were 
rules or as guidance in accordance with SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2CR(1); 
and. 
(2) 
those articles of the MiFID Org Regulation in SYSC 1 Annex 1 
2.8AR and 3.2CR apply to them as if they were rules or as guidance 
in accordance with SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2CR(2). [deleted] 
Adequate policy and procedures 
… 
Page 48 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
6.1.2 
R 
… 
6.1.2-A 
R 
A common platform firm must, taking into account the nature, scale and 
complexity of its business, and the nature and range of financial services 
and activities undertaken in the course of its designated investment 
business, establish, implement and maintain adequate policies and 
procedures designed to detect any risk of failure by the firm to comply with 
its obligations under the UK law on markets in financial instruments, as 
well as associated risks, and put in place adequate measures and procedures 
designed to minimise such risks and to enable the FCA to exercise its 
powers effectively under the UK law on markets in financial instruments. 
… 
Compliance function 
6.1.3 
R 
… 
6.1.3-A 
R 
A common platform firm must establish and maintain a permanent and 
effective compliance function which operates independently and which has 
the following responsibilities: 
(1) 
to monitor on a permanent basis and to assess, on a regular basis, the 
adequacy and effectiveness of the measures, policies and procedures 
put in place in accordance with SYSC 6.1.2-AR, and the actions 
taken to address any deficiencies in the firm’s compliance with its 
obligations; 
(2) 
to advise and assist the relevant persons responsible for carrying out 
the firm’s designated investment business to comply with the firm’s 
obligations under the UK law on markets in financial instruments; 
(3) 
to report to the management body, at least on an annual basis, on: 
(a) 
the implementation and effectiveness of the overall control 
environment for the firm’s designated investment business; 
(b) 
the risks that have been identified; and 
(c) 
the complaints-handling reporting as well as remedies 
undertaken or to be undertaken; 
(4) 
to monitor the operations of the complaints-handling process and 
consider complaints as a source of relevant information in the 
context of its general monitoring responsibilities. 
To comply with SYSC 6.1.3-AR(1) and (2), the firm’s compliance function 
must conduct an assessment on the basis of which it must establish a risk-
based monitoring programme that takes into consideration all areas of the 
firm’s designated investment business and any relevant ancillary 
services and ancillary activities associated with the firm’s regulated 
Page 49 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
activities, including relevant information gathered in relation to the 
monitoring of complaints-handling. The monitoring programme must 
establish priorities determined by the compliance risk assessment ensuring 
that compliance risk is comprehensively monitored. 
… 
6.1.4 
R 
… 
6.1.4-AA 
R 
In order to enable the compliance function referred to in SYSC 6.1.3-AR to 
discharge its responsibilities properly and independently, a common 
platform firm must ensure that the following conditions are satisfied: 
(1) 
the compliance function must have the necessary authority, 
resources, expertise and access to all relevant information; 
(2) 
a compliance officer must be appointed and replaced by the 
management body and must be responsible for the compliance 
function and for any reporting as to compliance required in relation 
to the UK law on markets in financial instruments and by SYSC 
4.3.2-AR(3); 
(3) 
the compliance function reports on an ad-hoc basis directly to the 
management body where it detects a significant risk of failure by the 
firm to comply with its obligations under the UK law on markets in 
financial instruments; 
(4) 
the relevant persons involved in the compliance functions must not 
be involved in the performance of the services or activities they 
monitor; 
(5) 
the method of determining the remuneration of the relevant persons 
involved in the compliance function must not compromise their 
objectivity and must not be likely to do so. 
… 
6.1.4-C 
G 
(1) 
(2) 
This guidance is relevant to an SMCR firm required to appoint a 
compliance officer under SYSC 6.1.4R or article 22(3) of the MiFID 
Org Regulation SYSC 6.1.4-AAR as applicable. 
Taking account of the nature, scale and complexity of its activities, 
the firm should have appropriate procedures to ensure that the 
removal or any other disciplinary sanctioning of the compliance 
officer does not undermine the independence of the compliance 
function. 
(3) 
In the FCA’s view, it will be appropriate, in many cases, for the 
removal or any other disciplinary sanctioning of the compliance 
officer to require the approval of a majority of the management 
Page 50 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
body, including at least a majority of its members who do not 
perform any executive function in the firm. 
6.1.5 
R 
… 
6.1.5A 
R 
A common platform firm need not comply with SYSC 6.1.4-AAR(4) or 
SYSC 6.1.4-AAR(5) if it is able to demonstrate that in view of the nature, 
scale and complexity of its business, and the nature and range of its 
designated investment business, the requirements under those rules are not 
proportionate and that its compliance function continues to be effective. In 
that case, a common platform firm must assess whether the effectiveness of 
the compliance function is compromised, and the assessment must be 
reviewed on a regular basis. 
… 
6.2 
Internal audit 
6.2.1 
R 
A firm that is a common platform firm or a management company or an 
operator of an electronic system in relation to lending management 
company must, where appropriate and proportionate in view of the nature, 
scale and complexity of its business and the nature and range of its financial 
services and activities or (if it is a common platform firm) its designated 
investment business, undertaken in the course of that business, establish and 
maintain an internal audit function which is separate and independent from 
the other functions and activities of the firm and which has the following 
responsibilities: 
(1) 
to establish, implement and maintain an audit plan to examine and 
evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of the firm’s systems, 
internal control mechanisms and arrangements; 
(2) 
to issue recommendations based on the result of work carried out in 
accordance with (1); 
(3) 
to verify compliance with those recommendations; 
(4) 
to report in relation to internal audit matters in accordance with 
SYSC 4.3.2R or (if it is a common platform firm) SYSC 6.1.3-AR. 
[Note: article 11 of the UCITS implementing Directive] 
… 
6.2.1B 
G 
(1) 
This guidance is relevant to an SMCR firm required to establish and 
maintain an internal audit function under article 24 of the MiFID 
Org Regulation SYSC 6.2.1R. 
… 
6.2.2 
G 
(1) 
The term ‘internal audit function’ in SYSC 6.2.1R (and SYSC 
4.1.11G), and for a common platform firm in article 24 of the MiFID 
Page 51 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
Org Regulation SYSC 6.2.1R refers to the generally understood 
concept of internal audit within a firm, that is, the function of 
assessing adherence to and the effectiveness of internal systems and 
controls, procedures and policies. 
… 
… 
7 
Risk control 
7.1 
Risk control requirements 
… 
Application to a common platform firm 
7.1.-2 
G 
For a common platform firm: 
(1) 
the MiFID Org Regulation applies, as summarised in SYSC 1 
Annex 1 3.2G, SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2-AR and SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2­
BR; and [deleted] 
(2) 
the rules and guidance apply as set out in the table below: 
Subject 
Applicable rule or guidance 
Risk assessment 
SYSC 7.1.-2G, SYSC 7.1.1G, SYSC 7.1.2­
AR 
Risk management 
SYSC 7.1.3R, SYSC 7.1.4R, SYSC 7.1.4AG, 
SYSC 7.1.5R, SYSC 7.1.6R, SYSC 7.1.7R 
Risk control: remuneration 
SYSC 7.1.7BG, SYSC 7.1.7BBG 
Risk control: additional 
provisions 
SYSC 7.1.7CG, SYSC 7.1.8G, SYSC 7.1.9R 
to SYSC 7.1.16R 
Additional rules for CCR 
firms 
SYSC 7.1.16CR to SYSC 7.1.22R 
Application to an MiFID optional exemption firm and to a third country firm 
7.1.-1 
G 
For a MiFID optional exemption firm and a third country firm: 
(1) 
the rules and guidance in this chapter apply to them as if they were 
rules or as guidance in accordance with SYSC 1 Annex 1 
3.2CR(1); and. 
Page 52 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(2) 
those articles of the MiFID Org Regulation in SYSC 1 Annex 1 
2.8AR and 3.2CR apply to them as if they were rules or as 
guidance in accordance with SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2CR(2). [deleted] 
Risk assessment 
… 
7.1.2R 
R 
… 
7.1.2-A 
R 
A common platform firm must establish, implement and maintain adequate 
risk management policies and procedures which identify the risks relating 
to the firm’s activities, processes and systems and, where appropriate, set 
the level of risk tolerated by the firm. 
… 
Risk management 
7.1.3 
R 
A firm that is a UCITS investment firm common platform firm or an 
operator of an electronic system in relation to lending must adopt 
effective arrangements, processes and mechanisms to manage the risk 
relating to the firm’s activities, processes and systems, in light of that the 
level of risk tolerance set in accordance with SYSC 7.1.2R or (if it is 
common platform firm) SYSC 7.1.2-AR. 
… 
7.1.5 
R 
A firm that is a UCITS investment firm common platform firm or an 
operator of an electronic system in relation to lending must monitor the 
following: 
(1) 
the adequacy and effectiveness of the firm’s risk management 
policies and procedures; 
(2) 
the level of compliance by the firm and its relevant persons with 
the arrangements, processes and mechanisms adopted in 
accordance with SYSC 7.1.3R; 
(3) 
the adequacy and effectiveness of measures taken to address any 
deficiencies in those policies, procedures, arrangements, processes 
and mechanisms, including failures by the relevant persons to 
comply with such arrangements or processes and mechanisms or 
follow such policies and procedures. 
7.1.6 
R 
A firm that is a UCITS investment firm common platform firm or an 
operator of an electronic system in relation to lending must, where 
appropriate and proportionate in view of the nature, scale and complexity 
of its business and the nature and range of the investment services and 
activities designated investment business undertaken in the course of that 
Page 53 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
business, establish and maintain a risk management function that operates 
independently and carries out the following tasks: 
(1) 
implementation of the policies and procedures referred to in SYSC 
7.1.2R to SYSC 7.1.5R; and 
(2) 
provision of reports and advice to senior personnel in accordance 
with SYSC 4.3.2R or (if it is a common platform firm) to senior 
management in accordance with SYSC 4.3.2-AR(3). 
7.1.7 
R 
Where a firm that is a UCITS investment firm common platform firm or an 
operator of an electronic system in relation to lending is not required 
under SYSC 7.1.6R to maintain a risk management function that functions 
independently, it must nevertheless be able to demonstrate that the policies 
and procedures which it has adopted in accordance with SYSC 7.1.2R to 
SYSC 7.1.5R satisfy the requirements of those rules and are consistently 
effective. 
… 
Risk control: additional provisions 
… 
7.1.8 
G 
… 
(2) 
The term ‘risk management function’ in SYSC 7.1.6R and SYSC 
7.1.7R, and for a common platform firm in article 23(2) of the 
MiFID Org Regulation, refers to the generally understood concept 
of risk assessment within a firm, that is, the function of setting and 
controlling risk exposure. 
… 
… 
Additional rules for CRR firms 
… 
7.1.21 
R 
(1) 
A CRR firm’s risk management function (article 23 of the MiFID 
Org Regulation SYSC 7.1.2-AR, SYSC 7.1.3R, SYSC 7.1.5R to 
SYSC 7.1.7R) must be independent from the operational functions 
and have sufficient authority, stature, resources and access to the 
management body. 
… 
… 
8 
Outsourcing 
Page 54 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
8.1 
General outsourcing requirements 
… 
Application to a common platform firm 
8.1.-2 
G 
For a common platform firm: 
(1) 
the MiFID Org Regulation applies, as summarised in SYSC 1 Annex 
1 3.2G, SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2-AR and SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2-BR; and 
[deleted] 
(2) 
the rules and guidance apply as set out in the table below: 
Subject 
Applicable rule or guidance 
General requirements 
SYSC 8.1.-2G, SYSC 8.1.1R, SYSC 8.1.2G, SYSC 
8.1.3G, SYSC 8.1.12G 
Scope of critical and 
important operational 
functions 
SYSC 8.1.4AR, SYSC 8.1.5R 
Outsourcing critical or 
important operational 
functions 
SYSC 8.1.6-AR to SYSC 8.1.8R, SYSC 8.1.9R, 
SYSC 8.1.10R, SYSC 8.1.11-CR, SYSC 8.1.11-BR, 
SYSC 8.1.11-AG, SYSC 8.1.12G 
Application to an MiFID optional exemption firm and to a third country firm 
8.1.-1 
G 
For a MiFID optional exemption firm and a third country firm: 
(1) 
the rules and guidance in this chapter apply to them as if they were 
rules or as guidance in accordance with SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2CR(1); 
and. 
(2) 
those articles of the MiFID Org Regulation in SYSC 1 Annex 1 
2.8AR and 3.2CR apply to them as if they were rules or as guidance 
in accordance with SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2CR(2). [deleted] 
General requirements 
… 
8.1.3 
G 
SYSC 4.1.1R requires a firm to have effective processes to identify, manage, 
monitor and report risks and internal control mechanisms. Except in relation 
to those functions described in SYSC 8.1.5R and (for a common platform 
firm in article 30(2) of the MiFID Org Regulation), where a firm relies on a 
third party for the performance of operational functions which are not 
critical or important for the performance of relevant services and activities 
Page 55 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(see SYSC 8.1.1R(1)) on a continuous and satisfactory basis, it should take 
into account, in a manner that is proportionate given the nature, scale and 
complexity of the outsourcing, the rules in this section in complying with 
that requirement. 
Scope of critical and important operational functions 
8.1.4 
R 
… 
8.1.4A 
R 
For the purposes of this chapter an operational function is regarded as 
critical or important if a defect or failure in its performance would 
materially impair the continuing compliance of a common platform firm 
with the conditions and obligations of its authorisation or its other 
obligations under the UK law on markets in financial instruments, or its 
financial performance, or the soundness or the continuity of its designated 
investment business. 
8.1.5 
R 
For a UCITS investment firm common platform firm, and without prejudice 
to the status of any other function, the following functions will not be 
considered as critical or important for the purposes of this chapter: 
(1) 
the provision to the firm of advisory services, and other services 
which do not form part of the relevant services and activities of the 
firm, including the provision of legal advice to the firm, the training 
of personnel of the firm, billing services and the security of the 
firm’s premises and personnel; 
(2) 
the purchase of standardised services, including market information 
services and the provision of price feeds; 
(3) 
the recording and retention of relevant telephone conversations or 
electronic communications subject to SYSC 10A. 
… 
Outsourcing critical or important operational functions 
8.1.6 
R 
… 
8.1.6-A 
R 
If a common platform firm outsources critical or important operational 
functions or any relevant services and activities, it remains fully responsible 
for discharging all of its obligations under the UK law on markets in 
financial instruments and must comply with the following conditions: 
(1) 
the outsourcing must not result in the delegation by senior 
management of their responsibility; 
(2) 
the relationship and obligations of the firm towards its clients under 
the UK law on markets in financial instruments must not be altered; 
Page 56 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(3) 
(4) 
the conditions with which the firm must comply in order to be 
authorised, and to remain so, must not be undermined; 
none of the other conditions subject to which the firm’s 
authorisation was granted must be removed or modified. 
… 
8.1.7 
8.1.8 
R 
R 
A UCITS investment firm common platform firm must exercise due skill, 
and care and diligence when entering into, managing or terminating any 
arrangement for the outsourcing to a service provider of critical or 
important operational functions or of any relevant services and activities. 
A UCITS investment firm common platform firm must in particular take the 
necessary steps to ensure that the following conditions are satisfied: 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
(4) 
(5) 
(6) 
the service provider must have the ability, capacity, appropriate 
organisational structure supporting the performance of the 
outsourced functions, and any authorisation required by law to 
perform the outsourced functions, services or activities reliably and 
professionally; 
the service provider must carry out the outsourced services 
effectively, and in compliance with applicable laws and regulatory 
requirements, and to this end the firm must establish methods for 
assessing the standard of performance of the service provider and for 
reviewing on an ongoing basis the services provided by the service 
provider; 
the service provider must properly supervise the carrying out of the 
outsourced functions, and adequately manage the risks associated 
with the outsourcing; 
appropriate action must be taken if it appears that the service 
provider may not be carrying out the functions effectively and in 
compliance with applicable laws and regulatory requirements; 
the firm must retain the necessary expertise to supervise the 
outsourced functions effectively and to manage the risks associated 
with the outsourcing, and must supervise those functions and 
manage those risks effectively supervise the outsourced functions or 
services and manage the risks associated with the outsourcing, and 
to this end the firm must retain the necessary expertise and resources 
to supervise the outsourced functions effectively and to manage 
those risks; 
the service provider must disclose to the firm any development that 
may have a material impact on its ability to carry out the outsourced 
functions effectively and in compliance with applicable laws and 
regulatory requirements; 
Page 57 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(7) 
the firm must be able to terminate the arrangement for the 
outsourcing where necessary, with immediate effect when this is in 
the interest of its clients, without detriment to the continuity and 
quality of its provision of services to clients; 
(8) 
the service provider must co-operate with the FCA and any other 
relevant competent authority in connection with the outsourced 
activities; 
(9) 
the firm, its auditors, the FCA and any other relevant competent 
authority must have effective access to data related to the 
outsourced activities, as well as to the business premises of the 
service provider; and the FCA and any other relevant competent 
authority must be able to exercise those rights of access; 
(10) 
the service provider must protect any confidential information 
relating to the firm and its clients; 
(11) 
the firm and the service provider must establish, implement and 
maintain a contingency plan for disaster recovery and periodic 
testing of backup facilities where that is necessary having regard to 
the function, service or activity that has been outsourced.; 
(12) 
the firm must ensure that the continuity and quality of the 
outsourced functions or services are maintained also in the event of 
termination of the outsourcing either by transferring the outsourced 
functions or services to another third party or by performing them 
itself. 
8.1.9 
R 
A UCITS investment firm common platform firm must ensure that the 
respective rights and obligations of the firm and of the service provider are 
clearly allocated and set out in a written agreement. In particular, the firm 
must keep its instruction and termination rights, its rights of information, 
and its right to inspections and access to books and premises. The 
agreement must ensure that outsourcing by the service provider only takes 
place with the firm’s consent in writing. 
8.1.10 
R 
If a UCITS investment firm common platform firm, and the service provider 
are members of the same group, the firm may, for the purpose of complying 
with SYSC 8.1.6-AR, SYSC 8.1.7R to SYSC 8.1.11R SYSC 8.1.10R, SYSC 
8.1.11-BR and SYSC 8.2 and SYSC 8.3 SYSC 8.1.11-AR, take into account 
the extent to which the UCITS investment firm common platform firm 
controls the service provider or has the ability to influence its actions. 
8.1.11 
R 
… 
8.1.11-C 
R 
A common platform firm must make available on request to the FCA all 
information necessary to enable the FCA to supervise the compliance of the 
performance of the outsourced activities with the requirements of the UK 
law on markets in financial instruments. 
Page 58 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
8.1.11-B 
R 
In addition to the requirements in SYSC 8.1.6-AR, SYSC 8.1.7R to SYSC 
8.1.10R and SYSC 8.1.11-BR, where a common platform firm outsources 
functions related to portfolio management provided to clients to a service 
provider located in a third country, the firm must ensure that the following 
conditions are satisfied: 
8.1.11-A 
G 
(1) 
the service provider is authorised or registered in its home 
jurisdiction to provide that service and is effectively supervised by a 
regulatory body in that third country; and 
(2) 
there is an appropriate cooperation agreement between the FCA and 
the regulatory body of the service provider. 
For the purposes of the cooperation agreement referred to in SYSC 8.1.11­
BR(2): 
(1) 
If the FCA enters into such agreement with a regulatory body in a 
third country, the FCA would include provisions to: 
(a) 
obtain on request the information necessary to carry out their 
supervisory tasks pursuant to the UK law on markets in 
financial instruments; 
(b) 
(c) 
obtain access to the documents relevant for the performance 
of their supervisory duties maintained in the third country; 
receive information from the regulatory body in the third 
country as soon as possible for the purpose of investigating 
apparent breaches of the requirements under the UK law on 
markets in financial instruments; 
(d) 
cooperate with regard to enforcement, in accordance with the 
national and international law applicable to the regulatory 
body in a third country and the FCA in the United Kingdom 
in cases of breach of the requirements under the of UK law 
on markets in financial instruments. 
(2) 
The FCA publishes on its website a list of the cooperation 
agreements with regulatory bodies in third countries. 
[Editor’s note: The list of FCA’s cooperation agreements with 
regulatory bodies in third countries can be found at: 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/corporate/outsourcing-portfolio­
management-list-cooperation-agreements-2018.pdf] 
… 
8.1.12 
G 
As SUP 15.3.8G explains, a firm should notify the FCA when it intends to 
rely on a third party for the performance of operational functions which are 
critical or important for the performance of relevant services and activities 
on a continuous and satisfactory basis. 
Page 59 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
[Note: recital 44 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
9 
Record-keeping 
9.1 
General rules on record-keeping 
Application to a common platform firm 
9.1.-2 
G 
For a common platform firm: 
(1) 
the MiFID Org Regulation applies, as summarised in SYSC 1 Annex 
1 3.2G, SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2-AR and SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2-BR; and 
[deleted] 
(2) 
the rules and guidance apply as set out in the table below: 
Subject 
Applicable rule or guidance 
General requirements 
SYSC 9.1.-2G, SYSC 9.1.1AR, SYSC 9.1.1BR, 
SYSC 9.1.2-AR 
Specific requirements 
for insurance 
distribution 
SYSC 9.1.2AR, SYSC 9.1.2DR 
Guidance on record-
keeping 
SYSC 9.1.2BG, SYSC 9.1.4G, SYSC 9.1.5G, SYSC 
9.1.6G, SYSC 9.1.6AG 
Application to an MiFID optional exemption firm and to a third country firm 
9.1.-1 
G 
For a MiFID optional exemption firm and a third country firm: 
(1) 
the rules and guidance in this chapter apply to them as if they were 
rules or as guidance in accordance with SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2CR(1); 
and. 
(2) 
those articles of the MiFID Org Regulation in SYSC 1 Annex 1 
2.8AR and 3.2CR apply to them as if they were rules or as guidance 
in accordance with SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2CR(2). [deleted] 
General requirements 
… 
9.1.1A 
R 
… 
9.1.1B 
R 
A common platform firm must: 
Page 60 of 243 



FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(1) 
at least keep the records in relation to organisational requirements as 
set out in the table below: 
Type of record 
Summary of content 
The firm’s business and 
internal organisation 
Records as provided for under SYSC 4.1.1-
AR(1)(d) 
Compliance reports 
Each compliance report to management body 
Conflict of Interest 
record 
Records as provided for under SYSC 10.1.6R and 
SYSC 10.1.6-AR 
Risk management 
reports 
Each risk management report to senior 
management 
Internal audit reports 
Each internal audit report to senior management 
Records of personal 
transactions 
Records as provided for under COBS 
11.7A.5R(5)(c) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Organisational requirements 
(2) 
keep written records of any policies and procedures it is required to 
maintain to comply with its obligations under the UK law on 
markets in financial instruments and the UK law on market abuse. 
9.1.2 
R 
… 
9.1.2-A 
R 
In relation to its MiFID business, a common platform firm must retain 
records in a medium that allows the storage of information in a way 
accessible for future reference by the FCA, and so that the following 
conditions are met: 
(1) 
the FCA or any other relevant competent authority must be able to 
access them readily and to reconstitute each key stage of the 
processing of each transaction; 
(2) 
it must be possible for any corrections or other amendments, and the 
contents of the records prior to such corrections and amendments, to 
be easily ascertained; 
Page 61 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(3) 
it must not be possible for the records otherwise to be manipulated 
or altered; 
(4) 
it must allow IT systems or any other efficient technology when the 
analysis of the data cannot be easily carried out due to the volume 
and the nature of the data; and 
(5) 
the firm's arrangements must comply with the record keeping 
requirements irrespective of the technology used. 
… 
Guidance on record-keeping 
… 
9.1.6 
G 
Schedule 1 to each module of the Handbook sets out a list summarising the 
record-keeping requirements of that module. A common platform firm 
should also refer to the record-keeping requirements in the MiFID Org 
Regulation. 
… 
10 
Conflicts of interest 
10.1 
Application 
… 
Application to a common platform firm 
10.1.-2 
G For a common platform firm: 
(1) 
the MiFID Org Regulation applies, as summarised in SYSC 1 Annex 1 
3.2G, SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2AR and SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2-BR; and 
[deleted] 
(2) 
the rules and guidance in the table below apply: 
Subject 
Applicable rule or guidance 
Application 
SYSC 10.1.-4R, SYSC 10.1.-3R 
General application 
SYSC 10.1.1R 
Provision of services 
Requirements only apply if a 
service is provided 
SYSC 10.1.2G 
Identifying conflicts 
SYSC 10.1.3R 
Page 62 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
Types of conflicts 
SYSC 10.1.4R, SYSC 10.1.5G 
Records of conflicts 
SYSC 10.1.6R, SYSC 10.1.6AAR 
Managing conflicts 
SYSC 10.1.7R 
Disclosure of conflicts 
SYSC 10.1.8R, SYSC 10.1.9G, SYSC 
10.1.9AR 
Conflicts policy 
SYSC 10.1.10R, SYSC 10.1.12G 
Contents of policy 
SYSC 10.1.11R, SYSC 10.1.11AAR, SYSC 
10.1.11ABR 
… 
… 
Requirements only apply if a service is provided 
10.1.2 
G 
(1) 
The requirements in this section only apply where a service is 
provided by a firm. The status of the client to whom the service is 
provided (as a retail client, professional client or eligible 
counterparty) is irrelevant for this purpose. 
[Note: recital 46 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
… 
Types of conflicts 
10.1.4 
R 
For the purposes of identifying the types of conflict of interest that arise, 
or may arise, in the course of providing a service and whose existence 
may damage the interests of a client, a management company firm must 
take into account, as a minimum, whether the firm or a relevant person, 
or a person directly or indirectly linked by control to the firm: 
(1) 
is likely to make a financial gain, or avoid a financial loss, at the 
expense of the client; 
(2) 
has an interest in the outcome of a service provided to the client or 
of a transaction carried out on behalf of the client, which is 
distinct from the client's interest in that outcome; 
(2A) 
in the case of a management company providing collective 
portfolio management services for a UCITS scheme, (2) also 
applies where the service is provided to, or the transaction is 
carried out on behalf of, a client other than the UCITS scheme; 
Page 63 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(3) 
has a financial or other incentive to favour the interest of another 
client or group of clients over the interests of the client; 
(4) 
carries on the same business as the client; or in the case of a 
management company, carries on the same activities for the 
UCITS scheme and for another client or clients which are not 
UCITS schemes; or 
(5) 
(except in the case of a common platform firm or MiFID optional 
exemption firm) receives or will receive from a person other than 
the client an inducement in relation to a service provided to the 
client, in the form of monies, goods or services, other than the 
standard commission or fee for that service.; or 
(6) 
(in the case of a common platform firm or a MiFID optional 
exemption firm) receives or will receive from a person other than 
the client an inducement in relation to a service provided to the 
client, in the form of monetary or non-monetary benefits or 
services. 
The conflict of interest may result from the firm or person providing a 
service referred to in SYSC 10.1.1R or engaging in any other activity or, 
in the case of a management company, whether as a result of providing 
collective portfolio management services or otherwise. 
[Note: article 17(1) of the UCITS implementing Directive] 
10.1.4A 
G 
Other firms (except common platform firms, MiFID optional exemption 
firms, third country firms, UCITS management companies and insurance 
intermediaries) should take account of the rule on the types of conflicts 
(see SYSC 10.1.4R) in accordance with SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.3R. 
… 
10.1.5 
G 
The circumstances which should be treated as giving rise to a conflict of 
interest cover cases where there is a conflict between the interests of the 
firm or certain persons connected to the firm or the firm’s group and the 
duty the firm owes to a client; or between the differing interests of two or 
more of its clients, to whom the firm owes in each case a duty. It is not 
enough that the firm may gain a benefit if there is not also a possible 
disadvantage to a client, or that one client to whom the firm owes a duty 
may make a gain or avoid a loss without there being a concomitant 
possible loss to another such client. 
[Note: recital 45 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
Records of conflicts 
10.1.6 
R 
A management company, an insurance intermediary and a firm carrying 
on funeral plan distribution firm must keep and regularly update a record 
of the kinds of service or activity carried out by or on behalf of that firm 
Page 64 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
in which a conflict of interest entailing a material risk of damage, or for a 
common platform firm or a MiFID optional exemption firm, a risk of 
damage, to the interests of one or more clients has arisen or, in the case of 
an ongoing service or activity, may arise. 
[Note: article 20(1) of the UCITS implementing Directive] 
10.1.6A 
G 
Other firms (other than common platform firms, MiFID optional 
exemption firms, third country firms and insurance intermediaries) should 
also take account of the rule on records of conflicts (see SYSC 10.1.6 R) 
in accordance with SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2BR, SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2CR 
and SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.3R). 
10.1.6AA 
R 
An insurance intermediary and a firm carrying on funeral plan 
distribution A firm must ensure that its management body its senior 
management receives on a frequent basis, and at least annually, written 
reports on all situations referred to in SYSC 10.1.6R. 
10.1.6B 
G 
Where SYSC 10.1.6AAR applies as guidance to a firm in accordance with 
SYSC 1 Annex 1.3.3R, a firm (other than a common platform firm and an 
insurance intermediary) should read SYSC 10.1.6AAR as if “should” 
appeared in that rule instead of “must”. 
… 
Disclosure of conflicts 
10.1.8 
R 
(1) 
If arrangements made by a firm under SYSC 10.1.7R are not 
sufficient to ensure, with reasonable confidence, that risks of 
damage to the interests of a client will be prevented, the firm must 
clearly disclose the following to the client before undertaking 
business for the client: 
(a) 
the general nature or sources of conflicts of interest, or 
both; and 
(b) 
the steps taken to mitigate those risks. 
(2) 
The disclosure must: 
(a) 
be made in a durable medium; 
(b) 
clearly state that the organisational and administrative 
arrangements established by the firm to prevent or manage 
that conflict are not sufficient to ensure, with reasonable 
confidence, that the risks of damage to the interests of the 
client will be prevented; 
(c) 
include specific description of the conflicts of interest that 
arise in the provision of funeral plan distribution, 
insurance distribution activities, investment services or 
Page 65 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
ancillary services services, taking into account the nature 
of the client to whom the disclosure is being made; 
(d) 
explain the risks to the client that arise as a result of the 
conflicts of interest; and 
(e) 
include sufficient detail, taking into account the nature of 
the client, to enable that client to take an informed decision 
with respect to the service in the context of which the 
conflict of interest arises. 
(3) 
This rule does not apply to the extent that SYSC 10.1.21R applies. 
[Note: 23(2) and (3) of MiFID and article 28(2) and (3) of 
the IDD] 
10.1.9 
G 
Firms should aim to identify and manage the conflicts of interest arising 
in relation to their various business lines and their group’s activities 
under a comprehensive conflicts of interest policy. In particular, the 
disclosure of conflicts of interest by a firm should not exempt it from the 
obligation to maintain and operate the effective organisational and 
administrative arrangements under SYSC 10.1.7R. While disclosure of 
specific conflicts of interest is required by SYSC 10.1.8R, an over-
reliance on disclosure without adequate consideration as to how conflicts 
may appropriately be managed is not permitted. 
10.1.9A 
R 
A firm must treat disclosure of conflicts pursuant to SYSC 10.1.8R as a 
measure of last resort to be used only where the effective organisational 
and administrative arrangements established by the firm to prevent or 
manage its conflicts of interest in accordance with SYSC 10.1.3R and 
SYSC 10.1.7R are not sufficient to ensure, with reasonable confidence, 
that risks of damage to the interests of the client will be prevented. 
Conflicts policy 
10.1.10 
R 
(1) 
A management company, an insurance intermediary and a firm 
carrying on funeral plan distribution firm must establish, 
implement and maintain an effective conflicts of interest policy 
that is set out in writing and is appropriate to the size and 
organisation of the firm and the nature, scale and complexity of its 
business. 
(2) 
Where the management company, or insurance intermediary or 
carrying on funeral plan distribution firm is a member of a group, 
the policy must also take into account any circumstances, of which 
the firm is or should be aware, which may give rise to a conflict of 
interest arising as a result of the structure and business activities of 
other members of the group. 
[Note: article 18(1) of the UCITS implementing Directive] 
Page 66 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
Contents of policy 
10.1.11 
R 
(1) 
The conflicts of interest policy must include the following content: 
(a) 
it must identify in accordance with SYSC 10.1.3R, SYSC 
10.1.4R, SYSC 10.1.4BR and SYSC 10.1.4CR (as 
applicable), by reference to the specific services and 
activities carried out by or on behalf of the management 
company, insurance intermediary or firm carrying on 
funeral plan distribution firm, the circumstances which 
constitute or may give rise to a conflict of interest entailing 
a material risk of damage, or for a common platform firm 
or a MiFID optional exemption firm a risk of damage, to 
the interests of one or more clients; and 
(b) 
it must specify procedures to be followed and measures to 
be adopted by a firm in order to manage, or for a common 
platform firm or MiFID optional exemption firm to prevent 
or manage, such conflicts. 
(2) 
The procedures and measures provided for in paragraph (1)(b) 
must: 
(a) 
be designed to ensure that relevant persons engaged in 
different business activities involving a conflict of interest 
of the kind specified in paragraph (1)(a) carry on those 
activities at a level of independence appropriate to the size 
and activities of the management company firm and of the 
group to which either of them respectively belongs, and to 
the materiality of the risk of damage to the interests of 
clients; 
(aa) 
(for an insurance intermediary or a firm carrying on 
funeral plan distribution) be designed to ensure that the 
insurance distribution activities or funeral plan 
distribution are carried out in accordance with the best 
interests of the client and are not biased due to conflicting 
interests of the insurance intermediary, the firm carrying 
on funeral plan distribution or another client; and 
(b) 
include, for an insurance intermediary or a firm carrying 
on funeral plan distribution a firm where appropriate, the 
following, and for a management company, such of the 
following as are necessary and appropriate for the 
management company to ensure the requisite degree of 
independence: 
(i) 
effective procedures to prevent or control the 
exchange of information between relevant persons 
engaged in activities involving a risk of a conflict 
Page 67 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
of interest where the exchange of that information 
may harm the interests of one or more clients; 
(ii) 
the separate supervision of relevant persons whose 
principal functions involve carrying out activities 
on behalf of, or providing services to, clients whose 
interests may conflict, or who otherwise represent 
different interests that may conflict, including those 
of the firm; 
(iii) 
the removal of any direct link between the 
remuneration of relevant persons principally 
engaged in one activity and the remuneration of, or 
revenues generated by, different relevant persons 
principally engaged in another activity, where a 
conflict of interest may arise in relation to those 
activities; 
(iv) 
measures to prevent or limit any person from 
exercising inappropriate influence over the way in 
which a relevant person carries out services or 
activities; 
(v) 
measures to prevent or control the simultaneous or 
sequential involvement of a relevant person in 
separate services or activities where such 
involvement may impair the proper management of 
conflicts of interest; and 
(vi) 
(for insurance intermediaries or firms carrying on 
funeral plan distribution) a gifts and benefits policy 
which determines clearly under which conditions 
gifts and benefits can be accepted or granted and 
which steps are to be taken when accepting and 
granting gifts and benefits. 
… 
10.1.11A 
G 
Other firms (except common platform firms, UCITS management 
companies, MiFID optional exemption firms, third-country firms, and 
insurance intermediaries and firms carrying on funeral plan distribution) 
should take account of the rules relating to conflicts of interest policies 
(see SYSC 10.1.10R and SYSC 10.1.11R) in accordance with SYSC 1 
Annex 1 3.2BR, SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2CR and SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.3R 
10.1.11AA R 
An insurance intermediary and a firm carrying on funeral plan 
distribution. A firm must assess and periodically review, on at least an 
annual basis, the conflicts of interest policy established in accordance 
with SYSC 10.1.10R and SYSC 10.1.11R (or for a common platform firm 
or MiFID optional exemption firm, SYSC 10.1.8R, SYSC 10.1.9AR to 
Page 68 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
SYSC 10.1.11R) and should take all appropriate measures to address any 
deficiencies (such as over reliance on disclosure of conflicts of interest). 
10.1.11AB R 
A common platform firm and a MiFID optional exemption firm in relation 
to its insurance distribution activities, must: 
(1) 
take into account the factors set out in SYSC 10.1.4BR(4) and 
SYSC 10.1.4CR(5) when complying with article 33 of the MiFID 
Org Regulation (as applied as a rule by SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2-AR 
or 3.2-BR(2)) SYSC 10.1.4R; and 
(2) 
include the measure set out in SYSC 10.1.11R(2)(b)(vi) in the list 
of measures to be adopted, where necessary, when complying with 
article 34(3) of the MiFID Org Regulation (as applied as a rule by 
SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2-AR or 3.2-BR(2)) SYSC 10.1.11R(2). 
… 
10.1.12 
G 
In drawing up a conflicts of interest policy which identifies circumstances 
which constitute or may give rise to a conflict of interest, a firm should 
pay special attention to the activities of investment research and advice, 
proprietary trading, portfolio management and corporate finance business, 
including underwriting or selling in an offering of securities and advising 
on mergers and acquisitions. In particular, such special attention is 
appropriate where the firm or a person directly or indirectly linked by 
control to the firm performs a combination of two or more of those 
activities. 
[Note: recital 47 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
10A 
Recording telephone conversations and electronic communications 
10A.1 
Application 
Application 
… 
10A.1.3 
R 
For a firm in SYSC 10A.1.1R(1) (other than a MiFID investment firm or a 
third country investment firm) MiFIR, and any EU Regulation adopted 
under MiFIR or MiFID which is an onshored regulation, apply to the 
extent relevant to the subject matter of this chapter as if the firm were a 
MiFID investment firm providing investment services or performing 
investment activities in accordance with article 16(7) of MiFID. [deleted] 
… 
Page 69 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
10A.1.5 
G 
Firms should refer to article 76 of the MiFID Org Regulation, which 
contains additional requirements on recording of telephone conversations 
or electronic communications, in addition to this chapter. [deleted] 
Obligations for telephone and electronic communications 
… 
10A.1.10 
G 
A MiFID optional exemption firm that chooses to take advantage of the 
provisions in SYSC 10A.1.9R should set out its decision in its recording 
policy. Further, any minute or note made in accordance with SYSC 
10A.1.9R should contain all relevant substantive details of the 
conversation, as well as the information set out in SYSC 10A.1.9R(4)(a) to 
(d). MiFID optional exemption firms should note that the effect of SYSC 
10A.1.3R is to require their compliance, as relevant, with article 76 of the 
MiFID Org Regulation, including that records must be: 
(1) 
stored in a durable medium which allows them to be replayed or 
copied; and [deleted] 
(2) 
retained in a format that does not allow the original record to be 
altered or deleted. [deleted] 
Notification 
… 
10A.1.12 
G 
… 
10A.1.12A R 
(1) 
Before carrying out any activities referred to in SYSC 10A.1.1R(2) 
(and that are not excluded by SYSC 10A.1.4R) to new and existing 
clients, a firm must inform the client that: 
(a) 
the conversations and communications are being recorded; 
and 
(b) 
a copy of the recording of such conversations and 
communications with the client will be available, upon 
request, for a period of: 
(i) 
5 years to the client; and 
(ii) 7 years to the FCA. 
(2) 
A firm must present the information referred to in SYSC 
10A.1.11R to SYSC 10A.1.12AR(1) in the same language(s) used 
to provide designated investment business to clients. 
… 
Record keeping 
Page 70 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
10A.1.14 
R 
… 
Additional requirements on recording of telephone conversations or electronic 
communications 
10A.1.15 
R 
A firm must: 
(1) 
establish, implement and maintain an effective recording of 
telephone conversations and electronic communications policy, 
set out in writing, and appropriate to the size and organisation of 
the firm, and the nature, scale and complexity of its business. The 
policy must include the following content: 
(a) 
the identification of the telephone conversations and 
electronic communications, including relevant internal 
telephone conversations and electronic communications, 
that are subject to the requirements in accordance with this 
chapter; and 
(b) 
the specification of the procedures to be followed and 
measures to be adopted to ensure the firm’s compliance 
with SYSC 10A.1.6R and SYSC 10A.1.7R where 
exceptional circumstances arise and the firm is unable to 
record the conversation/communication on devices issued, 
accepted or permitted by the firm. A firm must retain the 
evidence of such circumstances and make it accessible 
to the FCA; 
(2) 
ensure that the management body has effective oversight and 
control over the policies and procedures relating to the firm’s 
recording of telephone conversations and electronic 
communications; 
(3) 
ensure that the arrangements to comply with recording 
requirements are technology-neutral; 
(4) 
periodically evaluate the effectiveness of the firm’s policies and 
procedures and adopt any such alternative or additional measures 
and procedures as are necessary and appropriate at a minimum 
when a new medium of communication is accepted or permitted 
for use by the firm; 
(5) 
keep and regularly update a record of those individuals who have 
firm’s devices or privately owned devices that have been 
approved for use by the firm; 
(6) 
educate and train employees in procedures governing the 
requirements in this chapter; 
(7) 
monitor compliance with the recording and record-keeping 
requirements in accordance with this chapter, by periodically 
Page 71 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
monitoring the records of transactions and orders, including 
relevant conversations, subject to those requirements in a 
proportionate and risk-based manner; and 
(8) 
demonstrate to the FCA, at the FCA’s request, the policies, 
procedures and management oversight of the recording rules. 
10A.1.16 
R 
A firm must: 
(1) 
record in a durable medium all relevant information related to 
relevant face-to-face conversations with clients. The information 
recorded shall include at least the following: 
(a) 
date and time of meetings; 
(b) 
location of meetings; 
(c) 
identity of the attendees; 
(d) 
initiator of the meetings; and 
(e) 
relevant information about the client order including the 
price, volume, type of order and when it shall be 
transmitted or executed; 
(2) 
store records in a durable medium, which allows them to be: 
(a) 
replayed or copied; 
(b) 
retained in a format that does not allow the original record 
to be altered or deleted. The period of time for the 
retention of a record must begin on the date when the 
record is created; and 
(c) 
readily accessible and available to clients, upon request; 
(3) 
ensure the quality, accuracy and completeness of the records of all 
telephone recordings and electronic communications. 
… 
19F 
Remuneration and performance management 
19F.1 
MiFID remuneration incentives 
… 
Remuneration policies and practices 
19F.1.4 
R 
(1) 
A dormant account fund operator in respect of its investment 
services and ancillary services, common platform firm (unless it is 
a collective portfolio management investment firm), a MiFID 
optional exemption firm in respect of its investment 
Page 72 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
services and ancillary services and a third country firm in respect 
of its MiFID or equivalent third country business must: 
… 
… 
19F.1.5 
G 
A firm should also be aware of: 
(1) 
in the case of a common platform firm (but excluding a collective 
portfolio management investment firm), the requirements 
on remuneration in article 27 of the MiFID Org 
Regulation applying to it; [deleted] 
… 
… 
19G 
MIFIDPRU Remuneration Code 
… 
19G.5 
Application of remuneration requirements to material risk takers 
Identifying material risk takers 
… 
19G.5.3 
R 
For the purposes of SYSC 19G.5.1R, a staff member’s professional 
activities are deemed to have a material impact on a firm’s risk profile or 
the assets the firm manages if one or more of the following criteria are 
met: 
… 
(8) 
in a firm that has permission for carrying on at least one of 
the regulated activities in (4)(a) to (g), the staff member is 
responsible for managing one of the following activities: 
… 
(c) 
outsourcing arrangements of critical or important functions 
as referred to in article 30(1) of the MiFID Org Regulation 
SYSC 8.1.4AR; and 
… 
… 
Senior managers and certification regime: Allocation of prescribed 
responsibilities 
Page 73 of 243 
24 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24.3 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
… 
Who prescribed responsibilities should be allocated to 
… 
Dividing and sharing management functions between different people 
… 
24.3.10 
G 
… 
(2) 
The firm should make the judgement: 
… 
(d) 
any other applicable Handbook requirements, including: 
(i) 
SYSC 2 (Apportionment of Responsibilities); and 
(ii) 
SYSC 24.3.7G to SYSC 24.3.9G;. 
(iii) 
article 21 of the MiFID Org Regulation (as applied 
in accordance with SYSC 1 Annex 1 2.8AR, SYSC 
1 Annex 1 3.2AR, SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2BR, SYSC 1 
Annex 1 3.2CR and SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.3R); and 
(e) 
article 21 of the MiFID Org Regulation (General 
organisational requirements), or other similar 
relevant onshored regulations. 
… 
… 
Sch 1 
Record keeping requirements 
… 
Sch 1.2 
G 
Handbook 
reference 
Subject of 
record 
Contents of record When record 
must be 
made 
Retention period 
… 
SYSC 9.1.1AR 
… 
… 
… 
… 
Page 74 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
SYSC 9.1.1BR 
Organisational 
requirements 
Details of the firm’s 
policies and 
procedures on 
organisational 
requirements 
related to: 
Within a 
reasonable 
time 
5 years 
(a) The firm’s 
business and 
internal 
organisation 
(b) Compliance 
reports 
(c) Conflict of 
Interest record 
(d) Risk 
management 
reports 
(e)Internal audit 
reports 
(f) Records of 
personal 
transactions 
… 
Sch 2 
Notification requirements 
Sch 2.1 
G 
(1) 
The aim of the guidance in the following table is to give the reader 
a quick over-all view of the relevant notification requirements. 
(2) 
It is not a complete statement of those requirements and should not 
be relied on as if it were. 
(3) 
Table 
Handbook 
reference 
Matter to be notified 
Contents of 
the 
notification 
Trigger 
event 
… 
Page 75 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
SYSC 
10A.1.12AR 
A firm must inform to new 
and existing clients that: 
Matters as 
described in 
SYSC 
10A.1.12AR 
Before 
carrying out 
any 
activities 
referred to in 
SYSC 
10A.1.1R(2) 
(a) the conversations and 
communications are being 
recorded; and 
(and that are 
not excluded 
by SYSC 
10A.1.4R) 
(b) a copy of the recording of 
such conversations and 
communications with the 
client will be available, upon 
request, for a period of: 
5years to the client; and 7 
years to the FCA. 
SYSC 
19D.3.51R 
… 
… 
… 
… 
Sch 5 
Rights of action for damages 
… 
Sch 5.4 
G 
Chapter/Appendix Section/Annex Paragraph Right of action under section 
138D 
For 
private 
person? 
Removed? 
For 
other 
person? 
… 
SYSC 4 to SYSC 10 
SYSC 10A 
No 
Yes SYSC 
1 Annex 
1.2.19R 
No 
… 
Page 76 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
Annex C 
Amendments to the Training and Competence sourcebook (TC) 
In this Annex, underlining indicates new text and striking through indicates deleted text. 
4 
Specified modified requirements 
4.1 
Specified requirements for MiFID investment firms and for third country 
investment firms 
… 
4.1.3 
R 
References in TC 4.1.4R to a relevant individual’s knowledge and 
competence are to the knowledge and competence necessary to ensure that 
the firm, on behalf of which the relevant individual acts, is able to meet its 
obligations related to information to clients, and the assessment of 
suitability and appropriateness and reporting to clients under: SYSC, COBS 
and PROD in relation to MiFID business. 
(1) 
those rules which implement articles 24 and 25 of MiFID 
(including those rules which implement related provisions under 
the MiFID Delegated Directive); and [deleted] 
(2) 
related provisions of the MiFID Org Regulation. [deleted] 
… 
Page 77 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
Annex D 
Amendments to the General Provisions sourcebook (GEN) 
In this Annex, underlining indicates new text and striking through indicates deleted text. 
1 
FCA approval and emergencies 
… 
1.2 
Referring to approval by the FCA 
… 
1.2.2A 
R 
(1) 
Unless required to do so under the regulatory system, a firm must 
ensure that neither it nor anyone acting on its behalf claims, in a 
public statement or to a client, expressly or by implication, that its 
affairs, or any aspect of them, have the approval or endorsement of 
the FCA or another competent authority. 
(1A) 
Paragraph (1) does not apply to a firm to the extent that it is 
incompatible with obligations under article 44(8) of the MiFID Org 
Regulation COBS 4.5A.16R. 
… 
1.2.4 
G 
A firm that carries on MiFID, equivalent third country or optional 
exemption business should have regard to the requirement in article 44(8) of 
R 
the MiFID Org Regulation which is reproduced at COBS 4.5A.16UK must 
comply with COBS 4.5A.16R. 
… 
2 
Interpreting the Handbook 
… 
2.2 
Interpreting the Handbook 
… 
European Economic Area (EEA) 
… 
Onshored Regulations and third country firms 
2.2.22A 
R 
(1) 
… 
… 
Page 78 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(4) 
GEN 2.2.22AR(1) is subject to articles 2A to 2E article 1(2A) to 
(2E) of MiFIR and article 1(3) to (5) of the MiFID Org Regulation. 
(5) 
In relation to TP firms GEN 2.2.22AR(1) does not apply 
requirements imposed by and under MiFIR or by the MiFID Org 
Regulation in addition to those referred to in articles (2A to 2E 
article 1(2A) to (2E) of MiFIR and article 1(3) to (5) of the MiFID 
Org Regulation. 
… 
MiFID technical standards 
2.2.29 
R 
(1) 
… 
(2) 
The provisions referred to in (1) are technical standards deriving 
from previously adopted EU regulations under MiFID which are 
assimilated law, except: 
… 
(c) 
to the extent that their application to a TP firm would be 
inconsistent with the application to that firm of Chapter 5 of 
the MiFID Org Regulation or MAR 10.4. 
… 
Page 79 of 243 



FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
Annex E 
Amendments to the Prudential sourcebook for MiFID Investment Firms (MIFIDPRU) 
In this Annex, underlining indicates new text and striking through indicates deleted text. 
7 
Governance and risk management 
7.1 
Application 
… 
7.1.3 
R MIFIDPRU 7 applies as follows: 
Section 
of MIFIDPRU 7 
Application 
to SNI 
MIFIDPRU 
investment 
firms 
Application to non-
SNI MIFIDPRU 
investment firms 
Application at 
the level of 
an investment 
firm group 
… 
MIFIDPRU 
Does not apply Applies to a non-SNI Does not apply 
7.2A (Risk 
MIFIDPRU 
management 
investment firm that 
function) 
has a risk 
management function 
in accordance with 
article 23 of 
the MIFID Org 
Regulation SYSC 
7.1.2-AR, SYSC 
7.1.3R, SYSC 7.1.5R, 
SYSC 7.1.6R and 
SYSC 7.1.7R. 
… 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
… 
7.2A 
Risk management function 
7.2A.1 
R MIFIDPRU 7.2A.2R and MIFIDPRU 7.2A.3R apply to a non-SNI 
MIFIDPRU investment firm that has a risk management function in 
accordance with article 23 of the MIFID Org Regulation SYSC 7.1.2-AR, 
SYSC 7.1.3R, SYSC 7.1.5R, SYSC 7.1.6R and SYSC 7.1.7R. 
Page 80 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
… 
Page 81 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
Annex F 
Amendments to the Conduct of Business sourcebook (COBS) 
In this Annex, underlining indicates new text and striking through indicates deleted text, 
unless stated otherwise. 
[Editor’s note: The shading shown in the ‘Conduct, Perimeter Guidance and Miscellaneous 
Provisions (MiFID 2) Instrument 2017’ (FCA 2017/39) and reflected as relevant in the 
‘Exiting the European Union: Business Standards Sourcebooks (Amendments) Instrument 
2019’ (FCA 2019/23) for certain provisions in COBS 3, COBS 4, COBS 6, COBS 8A, COBS 
9A, COBS 10A, COBS 11, COBS 11A, COBS 12, COBS 14.3A and COBS 16A below is 
removed. This change is not shown.] 
1 
Application 
1.1 
General application 
Introduction 
1.1.-1 
G 
(1) 
COBS 1.1.1R contains the general application rule. This is the 
starting point for the application of this sourcebook. 
(2) 
This section extends the general application of parts of this 
sourcebook to: 
(a) 
certain activities relating to deposits (including structured 
deposits) (COBS 1.1.1AR to COBS 1.1.1AER); 
(b) 
the activity of issuing electronic money (COBS 1.1.1BR); and 
(c) 
auction regulation bidding (COBS 1.1.1ER). 
(3) 
The general application of this sourcebook is further modified by: 
(a) 
COBS 1 Annex 1, in relation to certain activities of a firm 
(Part 1); 
(b) 
COBS 1 Annex 1, in relation to the location from which a 
firm’s activities are carried on (Part 2); and 
(c) 
individual chapters of this sourcebook (which may extend the 
general application of this sourcebook) (COBS 1.1.3R). 
(4) 
The application of this sourcebook to TP firms and Gibraltar-based 
firms is addressed in COBS 1 Annex 2 (COBS 1.1.1CR). 
(5) 
Further guidance on: 
(a) 
the application of this sourcebook is in COBS 1 Annex 1 (Part 
3); and 
Page 82 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(b) 
the interpretation of certain words and phrases used in this 
sourcebook is in COBS 1.4. 
Designated investment business and long-term insurance business in relation to 
life policies General application rule 
… 
Deposits (including structured deposits) 
1.1.1A 
R 
This sourcebook applies to a firm with respect to activities carried on in 
relation to deposits from an establishment maintained by it, or its appointed 
representative, in the United Kingdom only as follows: 
Section / chapter 
Application in relation to deposits 
(1) 
Rules in this sourcebook 
which implemented articles 
24, 25, 26, 28 and 30 of 
MiFID (and related 
provisions of the MiFID 
Delegated Directive) (see 
COBS 1.1.1ADG) The rules 
specified in COBS 1.1.1AER. 
A MiFID investment firm, a third 
country investment firm and a 
MiFID optional exemption firm 
when selling, or advising a client in 
relation to, a structured deposit. 
… 
Structured deposits: further provisions 
1.1.1AA 
R 
Except in COBS 6.2B, in the rules referred to in COBS 1.1.1AR(1) (and in 
any related guidance), references to: 
(1) 
investment services and designated investment business include 
selling, or advising clients in relation to, structured deposits; and 
(2) 
financial instruments and designated investments include structured 
deposits. 
1.1.1AB 
UK 
Article 1(2) of the MiFID Org Regulation specifies how its provisions 
should be read where they apply to firms selling, or advising on, structured 
deposits. 
1(2) References to investment firms shall encompass credit institutions and 
references to financial instruments shall encompass structured deposits in 
relation to all the requirements (so far as relevant) in Chapters II to IV of 
this Regulation. [deleted] 
1.1.1AC 
R 
A third country investment firm and a MiFID optional exemption firm must 
also comply with the provisions of the MiFID Org Regulation which relate 
Page 83 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
to the rules which implemented the articles of MiFID referred to in COBS 
1.1.1AR(1), as modified by article 1(2) of the MiFID Org Regulation, when 
selling, or advising a client in relation to, a structured deposit. [deleted] 
1.1.1AD 
G 
The rules which implemented the provisions of MiFID and the MiFID 
Delegated Directive referred to in COBS 1.1.1AR(1) can be found in the 
chapters of COBS in the following table and are followed by a ‘Note:’. 
[deleted] 
COBS chapter 
Description 
COBS 2 
Conduct of business obligations 
COBS 3 
Client categorisation 
COBS 4 
Communicating with clients, including financial 
promotions 
COBS 6 
Information about the firm, its services and 
remuneration 
COBS 8A 
Client agreements 
COBS 9A 
Suitability (MiFID provisions) 
COBS 10A 
Appropriateness (for non-advised services) (MiFID 
provisions) 
COBS 11 
Dealing and managing 
COBS 14 
Providing product information to clients 
COBS 16A 
Reporting information to clients (MiFID provisions) 
[Note: article 1(4) of MiFID] 
1.1.1AE 
R 
The rules which apply to a firm in COBS 1.1.1AR(1) when selling, or 
advising a client in relation to, a structured deposit: 
(1) 
are those in the sections or provisions of this sourcebook specified 
in the table below which constitute UK law on markets in financial 
instruments; and 
(2) 
as those rules otherwise apply to the firm in relation to its MiFID, 
equivalent third country or optional exemption business. 
COBS chapter 
Description 
Page 84 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
COBS 2 
Conduct of business obligations 
COBS 3 
Client categorisation 
COBS 4 
Communicating with clients, including 
financial promotions 
COBS 6.1ZA 
Information about the firm and 
compensation information (MiFID and 
insurance distribution provisions) 
COBS 6.2B 
Describing advice services 
COBS 8A 
Client agreements (MiFID provisions) 
COBS 9A 
Suitability (MiFID and insurance-based 
investment products provisions) 
COBS 10A 
Appropriateness (for non-advised services) 
(MiFID and insurance-based investment 
products provisions) 
COBS 11.2A.34R 
Best execution – MiFID provisions 
COBS 11.3 
Client order handling 
COBS 11.4 
Client limit orders 
COBS 11.5A 
Record keeping: client orders and 
transactions 
COBS 11A.1 
Underwriting and placing 
COBS 12.2 
Investment research and non-independent 
research 
COBS 14.3A 
Information about financial instruments 
(MiFID provisions) 
COBS 16A 
Reporting information to clients (MiFID and 
insurance-based investment products 
provisions) 
1.1.1AF 
G 
The effect of COBS 1.1.1AER is that a rule in this sourcebook only applies 
to a firm when selling, or advising a client in relation to, a structured 
deposit if that rule: 
(1) 
would apply to the firm in relation to its MiFID, equivalent third 
country or optional exemption business; and 
Page 85 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(2) 
derives from MiFD or its implementing measures. 
… 
Application to TP firms and Gibraltar-based firms 
1.1.1C 
R 
In addition to the application rules in COBS as relevant, TP firms and 
Gibraltar-based firms carrying on business from an establishment in the 
United Kingdom must also comply with the provisions in: This sourcebook 
applies to TP firms and Gibraltar-based firms as specified in COBS 1 
Annex 2. 
(1) 
COBS 16.6.7AR (drawdown pensions: annual statements) and 
COBS 16.6.8R to COBS 16.6.13G (income withdrawals – annual 
statements); [deleted] 
(2) 
COBS 19.10 (Drawdown, investment pathways and cash warnings). 
[deleted] 
(3) 
COBS TP 2 paragraphs 2.8G to 2.8J (Other Transitional Provisions) 
[deleted] 
1.1.1D 
G 
Unless the contrary intention appears, a reference to Gibraltar-based firm in 
COBS 1.1.1CR has the same meaning as in the Gibraltar Order. COBS 1 
Annex 2 also contains guidance on the application of this sourcebook to TP 
firms and Gibraltar-based firms. 
… 
1.1.6 
G 
… 
Actions for damages 
1.1.7 
R 
A contravention of a rule in this sourcebook that requires specific records 
to be kept for the purpose of complying with rules in SYSC 9 does not give 
rise to a right of action by a private person under section 138D of the Act 
(and each of those rules is specified under section 138D(3) of the Act as a 
provision giving rise to no such right of action). 
COBS 1.2 (Markets in Financial Instruments Directive) is deleted in its entirety. The deleted 
text is not shown but the section is marked deleted, as shown below. 
1.2 
Markets in Financial Instruments Directive [deleted] 
COBS 1.3 (Insurance distribution) is deleted in its entirety. The deleted text is not shown but 
the section is marked deleted, as shown below. 
1.3 
Insurance distribution [deleted] 
Page 86 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
Insert the following new section, COBS 1.4, after COBS 1.3 (Insurance distribution). The 
text is not underlined. 
[Editor’s note: The text at COBS 1.4.2G is not new; it is moved from COBS 1.2.5G and 
COBS 1.3.5G.] 
1.4 
Interpretation 
Purpose 
1.4.1 
G 
The purpose of this section is to provide guidance on the interpretation of 
certain words and phrases used in this sourcebook. 
In good time 
1.4.2 
G 
(1) 
Certain provisions in this sourcebook require firms to provide 
clients with information ‘in good time’ (for example, COBS 
6.1ZA.19AR). 
(2) 
In determining what constitutes the provision of information ‘in 
good time’, a firm should take into account, having regard to the 
urgency of the situation, the client’s need for sufficient time to read 
and understand the information before taking an investment 
decision. 
(3) 
A client is likely to require more time to review information given 
on a complex or unfamiliar product or service, or a product or 
service a client has no experience with, than a client considering a 
simpler or more familiar product or service, or where the client has 
relevant prior experience. 
Amend the following text as shown. 
[Editor’s note: The changes to COBS 1 Annex 1, Part 1 1.1R reflect the effect of Article 61 
of the MiFID Org Regulation which was copied out at COBS 16A.3.5UK but is now deleted.] 
1 Annex 
Application (see COBS 1.1.2R) 
Part 1: What? 
Modifications to the general application of COBS according to activities 
1. 
Eligible counterparty business 
Page 87 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
1.1 
R 
The COBS provisions shown below do not apply to eligible 
counterparty business except, where the eligible counterparty 
business is in scope of the IDD, those provisions which implemented 
the IDD continue to apply. 
COBS provision 
Description 
… 
COBS 4 (other than 
COBS 4.2, and COBS 
4.4.1R, COBS 
4.5A.9UK and COBS 
4.7.-1AUK) 
Communicating with clients including 
financial promotions 
… 
COBS 6.1ZA.16R 
COBS 6.1ZA (other 
than COBS 6.1ZA.11R 
to COBS 6.1ZA.13R) 
Information about costs and charges of 
different services or products (MiFID 
provisions) 
… 
COBS 8A (other than 
COBS 8A.1.5UK to 
COBS 8A.1.8G) 
Client agreements (MiFID provisions) 
… 
COBS 12.2.18UK 
COBS 12.2.18R 
Labelling of non-independent research 
COBS 14.3 
Information about designated investments 
(non-MiFID provisions) 
COBS 14.3A (other 
than COBS 14.3A.3R) 
Information about financial instruments 
(MiFID provisions) 
COBS 16 
Reporting information to clients (non-
MiFID provisions) 
COBS 16A.3 
Occasional reporting: MiFID business 
[Note: paragraphs 1 and 2 of article 30(1) of MiFID] 
… 
3A. 
Operators of OTFs 
Page 88 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
3A.1 G 
A firm which operates an organised trading facility should refer to 
MAR 5A.3.9R which specifies how the provisions in this sourcebook 
apply to that activity. [deleted] 
… 
… 
Insert the following new Annex, COBS 1 Annex 2, after COBS 1 Annex 1 (Application). The 
text is not underlined. 
1 Annex 
Application to TP firms and Gibraltar-based firms (see COBS 1.1.1CR) 
Part 1: TP firms 
1. 
Introduction 
1.1 
G 
(1) 
GEN 2.2 sets out how the Handbook applies to TP firms. 
(2) 
This Part supplements GEN 2.2 by further specifying how 
provisions in this sourcebook apply to TP firms. 
(3) 
The combined effect of GEN 2.2.26R and the rules in this 
Annex is that, for the purposes of this sourcebook, TP firms 
are subject to those: 
(a) 
rules which applied to them immediately prior to IP 
completion day (whether or not derived from EU law); 
(b) 
rules which implemented an EU Directive and which 
relate to a matter which, immediately before IP 
completion day, was reserved to the TP firm’s Home 
State or to the EEA State from where the service is 
provided; and 
(c) 
rules which came into force after IP completion day and 
which are specified in this Annex. 
(4) 
However, GEN 2.2.26R(3) and (4) and COBS 1 Annex 2 
include provisions which mean that a TP firm does not 
contravene certain rules in this sourcebook which derive from 
EU law to the extent that it complies with or applies a relevant 
provision of its Home State’s law or directly applicable EU 
law. 
Page 89 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
2. 
Application of COBS 
2.1 
R 
In addition to those rules specified in GEN 2.2.26R, a TP firm must 
also comply with: 
(1) 
those rules, as in force from time to time, which substitute the 
UK version of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 
2017/565 of 25 April 2016 which was part of UK law by 
virtue of the EUWA as at [Editor’s note: date of revocation of 
MiFID Org Reg provisions to be inserted]; 
[Note: The FCA has provided derivation and changes tables 
which indicate where provisions of assimilated EU law appear 
in the Handbook: https://www.fca.org.uk/firms/repeal­
replacement-retained-eu-law/derivation-changes-tables] 
(2) 
(to the extent that the rule does not already apply to such a TP 
firm as a result of GEN 2.2.26R) the provisions in: 
(a) 
COBS 2.2, where a rule in that section applies to a firm 
carrying on designated investment business in relation to 
a non-mass market investment; 
(b) 
COBS 4.5.2R (Communicating with retail clients (non-
MiFID provisions) – General rule); 
(c) 
COBS 4.10 (Approving and confirming compliance of 
financial promotions); 
(d) 
COBS 4.11 (Record keeping: financial promotion); 
(e) 
COBS 4.12A (Promotion of restricted mass market 
investments); 
(f) 
COBS 4.12B (Promotion of non-mass market 
investments); 
(f) 
the rules in COBS 4 in so far as they relate to the 
communication and approval of financial promotions 
relating to qualifying cryptoassets; 
(g) 
COBS 10 (Appropriateness (for non-advised services) 
(non-MiFID and non-insurance based investment 
products provisions)); 
(h) 
COBS 14 (Information about designated investments 
(non-MiFID provisions)), where a rule in that chapter 
applies to a firm which is arranging (bringing about) or 
executing a deal in a speculative illiquid security; 
Page 90 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(i) 
COBS 16.6.7AR (Drawdown pensions: annual 
statements) and COBS 16.6.8R to COBS 16.6.13G 
(Income withdrawals – annual statements) in relation to 
business carried on from an establishment in the United 
Kingdom; 
(j) 
COBS 19.10 (Drawdown, investment pathways and cash 
warnings) in relation to business carried on from an 
establishment in the United Kingdom; and 
(k) 
COBS TP 2 paragraphs 2.8G to 2.8J (Other Transitional 
Provisions) in relation to business carried on from an 
establishment in the United Kingdom. 
3. 
Evidencing compliance 
3.1 
R 
A TP firm does not contravene a rule applied by paragraph 2.1R(1) 
(‘the relevant rule’) to the extent that: 
(1) 
at the time the firm was required to comply with the rule, the 
firm (or its appointed representative) complied with a 
requirement in Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 
2017/565 supplementing Directive 2014/65/EU of the 
European Parliament and of the Council as regards 
organisational requirements and operating conditions for 
investment firms and defined terms for the purposes of that 
directive as it has effect in EU law (‘the EEA requirement’) in 
relation to the services it provides in or into the United 
Kingdom; and 
(2) 
the EEA requirement has equivalent effect to the relevant rule 
as it applies in the United Kingdom. 
3.2 
R 
Paragraph 3.1R does not apply unless a TP firm can demonstrate to 
the FCA that, at the relevant time, it complied with or applied a 
provision in that paragraph to the extent referred to there. 
3.3 
G 
(1) 
The purpose of paragraph 3.1R is to achieve an equivalent 
effect to GEN 2.2.26R(3) and (4) in relation to rules in this 
sourcebook that derive from the EU MiFID Org Regulation. 
(2) 
Further guidance on the application of the Handbook to TP 
firms can be found in GEN 2.2. 
Part 2: Gibraltar-based firms 
1. 
Introduction 
Page 91 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
1.1 
G 
(1) 
GEN 2.3 sets out how the Handbook applies to Gibraltar-
based firms. 
(2) 
This Part supplements GEN 2.3 by further specifying how 
provisions in this sourcebook apply to Gibraltar-based firms. 
(3) 
The combined effect of GEN 2.3.1R and the rules in this 
Annex is that, for the purposes of this sourcebook, Gibraltar-
based firms are subject to: 
(a) 
rules which applied to them immediately prior to IP 
completion day (whether or not derived from EU law); 
and 
(b) 
rules which came into force after IP completion day 
and which are specified in this Annex. 
2. 
Application of COBS 
2.1 
R 
In addition to those rules applying by virtue of GEN 2.3.1R, a 
Gibraltar-based firm must also comply with: 
(1) 
those rules, as in force from time to time, which substitute the 
UK version of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 
2017/565 of 25 April 2016 which was part of UK law by 
virtue of the EUWA as at [Editor’s note: date of revocation of 
MiFID Org Reg provisions to be inserted] when carrying on 
business from an establishment in the United Kingdom; 
[Note: The FCA has provided derivation and changes tables 
which indicate where provisions of assimilated EU law appear 
in the Handbook: https://www.fca.org.uk/firms/repeal­
replacement-retained-eu-law/derivation-changes-tables] 
(2) 
(to the extent that the rule does not already apply to such a 
Gibraltar-based firm as a result of GEN 2.3.1R) the 
provisions in: 
(a) 
COBS 2.2, where a rule in that section applies to a firm 
carrying on designated investment business in relation 
to a non-mass market investment; 
(b) 
COBS 4.5.2R (Communicating with retail clients (non-
MiFID provisions) – General rule); 
(c) 
COBS 4.10 (Approving and confirming compliance of 
financial promotions); 
(d) 
COBS 4.11 (Record keeping: financial promotion); 
Page 92 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(e) 
COBS 4.12A (Promotion of restricted mass market 
investments); 
(f) 
COBS 4.12B (Promotion of non-mass market 
investments); 
(f) 
the rules in COBS 4 in so far as they relate to the 
communication and approval of financial promotions 
relating to qualifying cryptoassets; 
(g) 
COBS 10 (Appropriateness (for non-advised services) 
(non-MiFID and non-insurance based investment 
products provisions)); 
(h) 
COBS 14.3 (Information about designated investments 
(non-MiFID provisions)), where a rule in that chapter 
applies to a firm which is arranging (bringing about) 
or executing a deal in a speculative illiquid security; 
(i) 
COBS 16.6.7AR (Drawdown pensions: annual 
statements) and COBS 16.6.8R to COBS 16.6.13G 
(Income withdrawals – annual statements) in relation 
to business carried on from an establishment in the 
United Kingdom; 
(j) 
COBS 19.10 (Drawdown, investment pathways and 
cash warnings) in relation to business carried on from 
an establishment in the United Kingdom; and 
(k) 
COBS TP 2 paragraphs 2.8G to 2.8J (Other 
Transitional Provisions) in relation to business carried 
on from an establishment in the United Kingdom. 
2 
Conduct of business obligations 
… 
2.2 
Information disclosure before providing services (other than MiFID and 
insurance distribution) 
Application 
2.2.-1 
R 
… 
(3) 
Where a rule in this section applies to a firm carrying on designated 
investment business in relation to a non-mass market 
investment the rule also applies to: [deleted] 
(a) 
a TP firm (to the extent that the rule does not already apply to 
such a TP firm as a result of GEN 2.2.26R); and 
Page 93 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(b) 
Gibraltar-based firm to the extent that the rule does not 
already apply to such a Gibraltar-based firm as a result 
of GEN 2.3.1R. 
[Editor’s note: The application of this sourcebook to TP firms and Gibraltar-based 
firms is now addressed in COBS 1 Annex 2.] 
… 
2.2A 
Information disclosure before providing services (MiFID and insurance 
distribution provisions) 
Application 
… 
2.2A.1A G 
Certain provisions in this section require firms to provide clients with 
information ‘in good time’. Guidance on the provision of information ‘in 
good time’ can be found in COBS 1.4.2G. 
… 
2.2A.5 
R 
… 
Record-keeping 
2.2A.6 
G 
A firm to which SYSC 9 applies is required to keep records of all services, 
activities and transactions undertaken by it. 
2.2A.7 
R 
In complying with the requirements in SYSC 9, a firm to which those rules 
apply must keep a record of the information provided to clients in 
compliance with the rules in this section applicable to MiFID, equivalent 
third country and optional exemption business. 
… 
2.3A 
Inducements relating to MiFID, equivalent third country or optional 
exemption business and insurance-based investment products 
… 
Disclosure of payments or benefits received from, or paid to, third parties 
… 
2.3A.13 
R 
In implementing the requirements of COBS 2.3A.10R to COBS 2.3A.12R, 
a firm must take into account the costs and charges rules in: 
(1) 
(for MiFID, equivalent third country or optional exemption 
business) COBS 6.1ZA.11R and, COBS 6.1ZA.12R and article 50 of 
the MiFID Org Regulation (see COBS 6.1ZA.14UK) COBS 
6.1ZA.14R; and 
Page 94 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
… 
… 
Acceptable minor non-monetary benefits 
2.3A.19 
R 
… 
[Note: articles 24(7)(b) and 24(8) of MiFID; and article 12(2) and (3) of 
the MiFID Delegated Directive and article 72(3) of the MiFID Org 
Regulation] 
… 
Record keeping: inducements 
… 
2.3A.33 
G 
In relation to the MiFID business of a firm, article 72 and Annex 1 of the 
MiFID Org Regulation SYSC 9 also make makes provision for the keeping 
of records on inducements. 
[Note: article 72 and Annex 1 of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
2.3A.34 
R 
In relation to the equivalent business of a third country investment firm and 
MiFID optional exemption business, information disclosed to the client in 
accordance with COBS 2.3A.6R(2), (3) and (4) and COBS 2.3A.10R to 
COBS 2.3A.12R must be retained in a medium that allows the storage of 
information in a way accessible for future reference by the FCA, and in 
such a form and manner that: [deleted] 
(1) 
the FCA is able to access it readily and to reconstitute each key 
stage of the processing of each transaction; 
(2) 
it is possible for any corrections or other amendments, and the 
contents of the records prior to such corrections or amendments, to 
be easily ascertained; 
(3) 
it is not possible for the records otherwise to be manipulated or 
altered; 
(4) 
it can be exploited through information technology or any other 
efficient method of exploitation when analysis of the data cannot be 
easily carried out due to the volume and nature of the data; and 
(5) 
the firm’s arrangements comply with the record keeping 
requirements irrespective of the technology used. 
[Editor’s note: The text that was formerly at COBS 2.3A.34R now appears at SYSC 9.1.2­
AR.] 
Page 95 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
2.3A.35 
R 
In complying with the requirements in SYSC 9, a firm to which those rules 
apply must keep a record of the information provided to clients in 
compliance with the rules in this section applicable to MiFID, equivalent 
third country and optional exemption business. 
… 
3 
Client categorisation 
3.1 
Application 
Scope 
… 
3.1.2A 
R 
Subject to COBS 3.1.3R and COBS 3.6.4CR, in this chapter provisions 
marked “UK” apply to a firm’s business other than MiFID business as if 
they were rules. [deleted] 
… 
Mixed business 
3.1.4 
R 
If a firm conducts business for a client involving both: 
(1) 
MiFID or equivalent third country business; and 
(2) 
other regulated activities subject to this chapter; 
it must categorise that client for such business in accordance with the 
provisions in this chapter that apply to MiFID or equivalent third country 
business, including those provisions applied to the equivalent business of a 
third country investment firm as a result of COBS 3.1.2AR. 
… 
3.3 
General notifications 
3.3.1A 
UK 
Articles 45(1) and (2) of the MiFID Org Regulation require firms to 
R 
provide clients with specified information concerning client categorisation. 
(1) 
45(1) Investment firms shall A firm must notify a new clients client, 
and any existing clients client that the investment firm firm has newly 
categorised as required by UK law on markets in financial 
instruments this chapter, of their categorisation as a retail client retail 
client, a professional client professional client or an eligible 
counterparty eligible counterparty in accordance with that Directive 
this chapter. 
(2) 
(2) Investment firms shall A firm must inform clients a client in a 
durable medium durable medium about: 
Page 96 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(a) 
any right that client client has to request a different 
categorisation; and about 
(b) 
any limitations to the level of client client protection that a 
different categorisation would entail. 
[Note: articles 45(1) and (2) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
3.3.1B 
R 
The information referred to in article 45(2) of the MiFID Org Regulation 
(as reproduced at COBS 3.3.1AUK) COBS 3.3.1AR(2) must be provided to 
clients a client prior to any the provision of services. 
[Note: paragraph 2 of section I of annex II to MiFID] 
… 
3.6 
Eligible counterparties 
… 
Elective eligible counterparties 
3.6.4 
R 
A firm may treat a client as an elective eligible counterparty in relation to 
business other than MiFID or equivalent third country business if: 
… 
(2) 
the firm adheres to the procedure set out at COBS 3.6.4BUK COBS 
3.6.4BR. 
3.6.4A 
R 
Provided that it adheres to the procedure set out at COBS 3.6.4BUK COBS 
3.6.4BR, a firm may treat a client as an elective eligible counterparty in 
relation to MiFID or equivalent third country business if the client: 
… 
3.6.4B 
UK 
Article 71(5) of the MiFID Org Regulation sets out the procedure to be 
R 
followed where a client requests to be treated as an eligible counterparty. 
71(5) Where If a client client requests to be treated as an eligible 
counterparty eligible counterparty, in accordance with [COBS 3.6.4R or 
COBS 3.6.4AR], the following procedure shall must be followed: 
(a) 
the investment firm shall firm must provide the client client with a 
(1) 
clear written warning of the consequences for the client client of such 
a request, including the protections they may lose; and 
(b) 
the client shall client must confirm in writing: 
(2) 
Page 97 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.7 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(a) 
the request to be treated as an eligible counterparty eligible 
counterparty either generally or in respect of one or more 
investment services services or a transaction or type of 
transaction or product; and 
(b) 
that they are aware of the consequences of the protection 
protections they may have lost lose as a result of the request. 
… 
Providing clients with a higher level of protection 
… 
3.7.3A 
UK 
Article 45(3) of the MiFID Org Regulation sets out provisions in respect of 
R 
giving clients a higher level of protection. 
45(3) Investment firms A firm may, either on their its own initiative or at 
the request of the client client concerned, treat a client that client in the 
following manner: 
(a) 
as a professional professional client or retail client retail client where 
(1) 
that client client might otherwise be classified as an eligible 
counterparty eligible counterparty pursuant to [COBS 3.6.2R]; or 
(b) 
as a retail client retail client where that client client that is considered 
(2) 
a professional client professional client pursuant to Part 2 of 
Schedule 1 to Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 COBS 3.5.2R. 
3.7.3B 
UK 
Article 71(2) to (4) of the MiFID Org Regulation sets out provisions 
R 
applying to eligible counterparties requesting a higher level of protection. 
(1) 
71(2) Where, pursuant to [COBS 3.7.1R], an eligible counterparty If 
an eligible counterparty requests treatment re-categorisation as a 
client whose business with an investment firm is subject to rules in 
the Conduct of Business; Market Conduct; Senior Management 
Arrangements, Systems and Controls and the Product Intervention 
and Product Governance sourcebooks which were relied on 
immediately before IP completion day to implement Articles 24, 25, 
27 and 28 of Directive 2014/65/EU (“the relevant rules”) client that 
benefits from a higher degree of investor protection, the request 
should must: 
(a) 
be made in writing,; and shall 
(b) 
indicate whether the treatment as retail client a retail client or 
professional client professional client refers to one or more 
investment services services or transactions, or one or more 
types of transaction or product. 
Page 98 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(3) 
Where an eligible counterparty requests treatment as a client whose 
(2) 
business with an investment firm is subject to the relevant rules If an 
eligible counterparty makes the request in (1), but does not expressly 
request treatment as a retail client retail client, the firm shall firm 
must treat that eligible counterparty eligible counterparty as a 
professional client professional client. 
(4) 
Where If the eligible counterparty eligible counterparty expressly 
(3) 
requests treatment as a retail client retail client, the investment firm 
shall firm must treat the eligible counterparty eligible counterparty as 
a retail client retail client, applying the provisions in respect of 
requests of non-professional treatment specified in paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 1 to Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 COBS 3.7.1R, COBS 
3.7.2R and COBS 3.7.5R. 
… 
4 
Communicating with clients, including financial promotions 
4.1 
Application 
Who? What? 
… 
4.1.1B 
R 
(1) 
TP firms must comply with the rules in (3) and (4) to the extent that 
those rules do not already apply to those TP firms as a result of GEN 
2.2.26R. 
(2) 
Gibraltar-based firms must comply with the rules in (3) and (4) to 
the extent that those rules do not already apply to such a Gibraltar-
based firm as a result of GEN 2.3.1R. 
(3) 
The rules are those in: 
(a) 
COBS 4.5.2R (communicating with retail clients – general 
rule); 
(b) 
COBS 4.10 (approving and confirming compliance of 
financial promotions); and 
(c) 
COBS 4.11 (Record keeping: financial promotion). 
(4) 
The rules are those in this chapter in so far as they relate to 
the communication and approval of financial promotions relating 
to qualifying cryptoassets. [deleted] 
4.1.1C 
G 
COBS 4.12A.3R and COBS 4.12B.1R apply the rules on 
promoting restricted mass market investments and non-mass market 
investments to TP firms and Gibraltar-based firms. [deleted] 
Page 99 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
[Editor’s note: The application of this sourcebook to TP firms and Gibraltar-based 
firms is now addressed in COBS 1 Annex 2.] 
… 
4.1.4 
G 
… 
(2) 
In the case of MiFID, equivalent third country or optional exemption 
business, certain requirements in this chapter are subject to an 
exemption for the communication of a third party prospectus in 
certain circumstances (see recital 73 of the MiFID Org Regulation 
COBS 4.2.1R(2)(ab), COBS 4.3.1R(2) and COBS 4.5A.1R(2)(a)). 
This has a similar effect to the exemption in article 70(1)(c) of the 
Financial Promotion Order, which is referred to in the definition of 
an excluded communication. 
… 
… 
4.1.7 
G 
… 
[Note: see recital 16 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
4.2 
Fair, clear and not misleading communications 
The fair, clear and not misleading rule 
… 
4.2.2 
G 
… 
[Note: article 30(1) of MiFID and recital 65 to the MiFID Org Regulation, 
article 17(2) of the IDD] 
… 
4.5A 
Communicating with clients (including past, simulated past and future 
performance) (MiFID provisions) 
Application 
… 
4.5A.2 
R 
Provisions in this section marked “UK” apply in relation to MiFID optional 
exemption business as if they were rules (see COBS 1.2.2G). [deleted] 
Page 100 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
4.5A.2A G 
The effect of GEN 2.2.22AR is that provisions in this section marked “UK” 
also apply in relation to the equivalent business of a third country 
investment firm as if they were rules. [deleted] 
General requirements 
4.5A.3 
UK 
(1) 
44(1) Investment firms shall A firm must ensure that all information 
R 
they address addressed to, or disseminate disseminated in such a way 
that it is likely to be received by, retail a retail client or professional 
clients a professional client or potential retail or professional clients, 
including marketing communications, satisfies the conditions laid 
down in paragraphs 2 to 8 in (2) and COBS 4.5A.7R to COBS 
4.5A.16R. 
(2) 
44(2) Investment firm shall A firm must ensure that the information 
referred to in paragraph 1 in (1) complies with the following 
conditions: 
(a) 
the information includes the name of the investment firm, 
firm; 
(b) 
the information is accurate and always gives a fair and 
prominent indication of any relevant risks when referencing 
any potential benefits of an investment service investment 
service or financial instrument, financial instrument; 
(c) 
the information uses a font size in the indication of relevant 
risks that is at least equal to the predominant font size used 
throughout the information provided, as well as a layout 
ensuring that ensures that such indication is prominent,; 
(d) 
the information is sufficient for, and presented in a way that is 
likely to be understood by, the average member of the group to 
whom it is directed, or by whom it is likely to be received,; 
(e) 
the information does not disguise, diminish or obscure 
important items, statements or warnings,; 
(f) 
the information is consistently presented in the same language 
throughout all forms of information and marketing materials 
that are provided to each client client, unless the client client 
has accepted agreed to receive information in more than one 
language,; and 
(g) 
the information is up-to-date and relevant to the means of 
communication used. 
[Note: article 44(1) and (2) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
Page 101 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
Comparative information 
4.5A.7 
UK 
(1) 
44(3) Where the This rule applies to information that compares: 
R 
(a) 
investment investment services or ancillary services, ancillary 
services; 
(b) 
financial instruments, financial instruments; or 
(c) 
persons persons providing investment investment services or 
ancillary services, ancillary services. 
(2) 
investment firms shall A firm must ensure that the following 
conditions are satisfied: 
(a) 
the comparison is meaningful and presented in a fair and 
balanced way; 
(b) 
the sources of the information used for the comparison are 
specified; and 
(c) 
the key facts and assumptions used to make the comparison 
are included. 
[Note: article 44(3) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
Referring to tax 
4.5A.8 
UK 
44(7) Where the If any information refers to a particular tax treatment, a 
R 
firm must ensure that it shall prominently state states that the tax treatment 
depends on the individual circumstances of each client client and may be 
subject to change in the future. 
[Note: article 44(7) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
Consistent financial promotions 
4.5A.9 
UK 
46(5) Investment firms shall A firm must ensure that information contained 
R 
in a marketing communication is consistent with any information the firm 
firm provides to clients clients in the course of carrying on investment 
investment services and ancillary services ancillary services. 
[Note: article 46(5) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
Past performance 
4.5A.10 
UK 
44(4) Where the A firm must ensure that information that contains an 
R 
indication of past performance of a financial instrument financial 
instrument, a financial index or an investment service, investment service 
Page 102 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
investment firms shall ensure that satisfies the following conditions are 
satisfied: 
(a) 
that indication is not the most prominent feature of the 
(1) 
communication; 
(b) 
the information must include includes appropriate performance 
(2) 
information which covers the preceding 5 years, or the whole period 
for which the financial instrument financial instrument has been 
offered, the financial index has been established, or the investment 
service investment service has been provided (where less than five 5 
years, or such longer period as the firm firm may decide), and in 
every case that performance information is based on complete 12­
month periods; 
(c) 
the reference period and the source of information is are clearly 
(3) 
stated; 
(d) 
the information contains a prominent warning that the figures refer to 
(4) 
the past and that past performance is not a reliable indicator of future 
results; 
(e) 
where if the indication relies on figures denominated in a currency 
(5) 
other than pounds sterling, the currency is clearly stated, together 
with a warning that the return may increase or decrease as a result of 
currency fluctuations; and 
(f) 
where if the indication is based on gross performance, the effect of 
(6) 
commissions, fees or other charges are is disclosed. 
[Note: article 44(4) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
4.5A.11 
G 
… 
[Note: recital 65 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
Simulated past performance 
4.5A.12 
UK 
44(5) Where the A firm must ensure that information that includes or refers 
R 
to contains an indication of simulated past performance, investment firms 
shall ensure that the information relates to a financial instrument or a 
financial index, and satisfies the following conditions are satisfied: 
(1) 
it relates to a financial instrument or a financial index; 
(2) 
44(5)(a) the simulated past performance is based on the actual past 
performance of one or more financial instruments financial 
instruments or financial indices which are the same as, or 
substantially the same as, or underlie, the financial instrument 
financial instrument concerned; 
Page 103 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(3) 
44(5)(b) in respect of the actual past performance referred to in point 
(a) (2), the conditions set out in points (a) to (c), (e) and (f) of 
paragraph 4 paragraphs (1) to (3), (5) and (6) of the rule on past 
performance (COBS 4.5A.10R), are satisfied complied with; and 
(4) 
44(5)(c) the information contains a prominent warning that the 
figures refer to simulated past performance and that past performance 
is not a reliable indicator of future performance. 
[Note: article 44(5) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
4.5A.13 
G 
For the purposes of COBS 4.5A.12UK, the conditions referred to in article 
44(5)(b) can be found reproduced in COBS 4.5A.10UK. [deleted] 
Future performance 
4.5A.14 
UK 
44(6) Where the A firm must ensure that information that contains 
R 
information on an indication of future performance, investment firms shall 
ensure that satisfies the following conditions are satisfied: 
(a) 
the information it is not based on or and does not refer to simulated 
(1) 
past performance; 
(b) 
the information it is based on reasonable assumptions supported by 
(2) 
objective data; 
(c) 
where the information is based on gross performance, the effect of 
(3) 
commissions, fees or other charges is disclosed; 
(d) 
the information it is based on performance scenarios in different 
(4) 
market conditions (both negative and positive scenarios), and reflects 
the nature and risks of the specific types of instruments included in 
the analysis; and 
(e) 
the information it contains a prominent warning that such forecasts 
(5) 
are not a reliable indicator of future performance. 
[Note: article 44(6) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
4.5A.15 
G 
A firm should not provide information on future performance if it is not 
able to obtain the objective data needed to comply with the requirements 
regarding information on future performance in COBS 4.5A.14UK COBS 
4.5A.14R. For example, objective data in relation to EIS shares may be 
difficult to obtain. 
Information that uses the name of any competent authority the FCA or PRA 
4.5A.16 
UK 
44(8) The information shall must not use the name of any competent 
R 
authority the FCA or PRA in such a way that would indicate or suggest 
endorsement or approval by that authority the FCA or PRA of the products 
or services of the investment firm the firm. 
Page 104 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
[Note: article 44(8) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
4.7 
Direct offer financial promotions 
Application 
4.7.-2 
R 
This section (other than COBS 4.7.-1AEU COBS 4.7.-1AR to COBS 4.7.­
1DG) does not apply in relation to a communication: 
… 
4.7.-1 
G 
(1) 
COBS 4.7.-1AUK COBS 4.7.-1AR to COBS 4.7.1R contain 
provisions on the communication of direct offer financial 
promotions. 
(2) 
In broad terms: 
(a) 
COBS 4.7.-1AUK COBS 4.7.-1AR is relevant to a firm 
communicating a direct offer financial promotion in relation to 
its MiFID, equivalent third country or optional exemption 
business; 
… 
(3) 
However, a MiFID investment firm, third country investment firm or 
MiFID optional exemption firm which is subject to the requirements 
in COBS 4.7.-1AUK COBS 4.7.-1AR may be subject to the rule rule 
in COBS 4.7.1R to the extent that it communicates a direct offer 
financial promotion: 
(a) 
which is not a marketing communication; or 
(b) 
which does not relate to its MiFID, equivalent third country or 
optional exemption business. 
Direct offer financial promotions relating to MiFID, equivalent third country or 
optional exemption business 
4.7.-1A 
UK 
(1) 
46(6) Marketing communications This rule applies in relation to a 
R 
marketing communication that relates to a firm’s MiFID, equivalent 
third country or optional exemption business: 
(a) 
containing an offer or invitation of the following nature and 
specifying the manner of response or including a form by 
which any response may be made, shall include such of the 
information referred to in Articles 47 to 50 as is relevant to 
that offer or invitation that contains: 
Page 105 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(a) 
an offer to enter into an agreement in relation to a 
(i) 
financial instrument financial instrument, or 
investment service investment service or ancillary 
service ancillary service with any person person 
who responds to the communication; or 
(b) 
an invitation to any person person who responds 
(ii) 
to the communication to make an offer to enter 
into an agreement in relation to a financial 
instrument financial instrument, or investment 
service investment service or ancillary service 
ancillary service.; and 
(b) 
which specifies the manner of response or includes a form by 
which any response may be made. 
(2) 
A firm must ensure that a marketing communication of the type in (1) 
includes such of the information referred to in the rules on 
information disclosure (COBS 6.1ZA and COBS 14.3A) as is relevant 
to that offer or invitation. 
(3) 
However, the first subparagraph shall This rule does not apply 
require the information in (2) to be included in the marketing 
communication if, in order to respond to an offer or invitation 
contained in the marketing communication it, the potential client 
client must refer to another document or documents, which, alone or 
in combination, contain that information. 
[Note: article 46(6) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
Effect of provisions marked “UK” for third country investment firms and MiFID 
optional exemptions firms 
4.7.-1B 
R 
Provisions in this section marked “UK” apply in relation to MiFID optional 
exemption business as if they were rules (see COBS 1.2.2G). [deleted] 
4.7.-1C 
G 
The effect of GEN 2.2.22AR is that provisions in this section marked “UK” 
also apply in relation to the equivalent business of a third country 
investment firm as if they were rules. [deleted] 
4.7.-1D 
G 
For the purposes of COBS 4.7.-1AUK, the provisions of articles 47 to 50 of 
the MiFID Org Regulation can be found reproduced in COBS 6.1ZA and 
COBS 14.3A. [deleted] 
Other direct offer financial promotions 
4.7.1 
R 
(1) 
Subject to (3) and (4), a firm must ensure that a direct offer financial 
promotion that is addressed to, or disseminated in such a way that it 
is likely to be received by, a retail client contains: 
… 
Page 106 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
… 
… 
4.11 
Record keeping: financial promotion 
General 
… 
4.11.1A 
G 
A MiFID investment firm, third country investment firm or MiFID optional 
exemption firm should refer to the requirements on record keeping in the 
MiFID Org Regulation and SYSC 9. [deleted] 
… 
Insert the following new section, COBS 4.11A, after COBS 4.11 (Record keeping: financial 
promotion). The text is not underlined. 
4.11A 
Record keeping: MiFID, equivalent third country and optional exemption 
business 
4.11A.1 
R 
This section applies to a firm in relation to its MiFID, equivalent third 
country or optional exemption business. 
4.11A.2 
G 
A firm to which SYSC 9 applies is required to keep records of all services, 
activities and transactions undertaken by it. 
4.11A.3 
R 
In complying with the requirements in SYSC 9, a firm to which those rules 
apply must keep a record of: 
(1) 
each communication to a client; and 
(2) 
each marketing communication issued by the firm (other than in oral 
form). 
Amend the following as shown. 
… 
4.12A 
Promotion of restricted mass market investments 
… 
Application 
… 
4.12A.3 
R 
In this section, reference to a firm includes: 
Page 107 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
6 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(1) 
TP firms, to the extent that this section does not already apply to 
those TP firms as a result of GEN 2.2.26R; and 
(2) 
Gibraltar-based firms, to the extent that this section does not already 
apply to such a Gibraltar-based firm as a result of GEN 2.3.1R. 
[deleted] 
[Editor’s note: The application of this sourcebook to TP firms and 
Gibraltar-based firms is now addressed in COBS 1 Annex 2.] 
… 
4.12B 
Promotion of non-mass market investments 
Application 
4.12B.1 
R 
This section applies to: 
… 
(2) 
TP firms, to the extent that this section does not already apply to 
those TP firms as a result of GEN 2.2.26R; and [deleted] 
(3) 
Gibraltar-based firms, to the extent that this section does not already 
apply to such a Gibraltar-based firm as a result of GEN 2.3.1R, 
[deleted] 
… 
… 
4.12B.3 
R 
Throughout this section, references to a firm include a TP firm and 
a Gibraltar-based firm. [deleted] 
… 
Information about the firm, its services and remuneration 
… 
6.1ZA 
Information about the firm and compensation information (MiFID and 
insurance distribution provisions) 
Application 
… 
6.1ZA.2 
G 
… 
6.1ZA.2 
G 
Certain provisions in this section require firms to provide clients with 
A 
information ‘in good time’. Guidance on the provision of information ‘in 
good time’ can be found in COBS 1.4.2G. 
Page 108 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
Effect of provisions marked “UK” for third country investment firms and MiFID 
optional exemption firms 
6.1ZA.3 
R 
Provisions in this section (and in COBS 6 Annex 7UK to which this section 
refers) marked “UK” apply in relation to MiFID optional exemption 
business as if they were rules (see COBS 1.2.2G). [deleted] 
6.1ZA.4 
G 
The effect of GEN 2.2.22AR is that provisions in this section marked “UK” 
also apply in relation to the equivalent business of a third country 
investment firm as if they were rules. [deleted] 
[Note: ESMA has issued guidelines under article 16(3) of the ESMA Regulation 
on cross-selling practices, 11 July 2016/ESMA/2016/574 (EN).] 
Information about a firm and its services: MiFID business 
6.1ZA.5 
UK 
47(1) Investment firms shall In good time before the provision of 
R 
investment services or ancillary services to a client, a firm must provide 
clients or potential clients that client with the following general 
information, where if relevant: 
(a) 
the name and address of the investment firm firm, and the contact 
(1) 
details necessary to enable clients a client to communicate effectively 
with the firm firm; 
(b) 
the languages in which the client client may communicate with the 
(2) 
investment firm firm, and receive documents and other information 
from the firm firm; 
(c) 
the methods of communication to be used between the investment 
(3) 
firm firm and the client client including, where relevant, those for the 
sending and reception of orders; 
(d) 
a statement of the fact that the investment firm firm is authorised and 
(4) 
the name and contact address of the competent authority that has 
authorised it by the FCA or the PRA, as applicable; 
(e) 
where if the investment firm firm is acting through an appointed 
(5) 
representative or a tied agent tied agent, a statement of this fact; 
(f) 
the nature, frequency and timing of the reports on the performance of 
(6) 
the service to be provided by the investment firm firm to the client 
client in accordance with [COBS 9A.3.2R and COBS 16A.2.1R]; 
(g) 
where if the investment firm firm holds client client financial 
(7) 
instruments financial instruments or client funds client money, a 
summary description of the steps which it takes to ensure their 
protection, including summary details of any relevant investor 
compensation or deposit guarantee scheme which applies to the firm 
firm by virtue of its activities in the United Kingdom; and 
Page 109 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(h) 
in relation to the firm’s conflicts of interest policy: 
(8) 
(a) 
a description, which may be provided in summary form, of the 
conflicts of interest policy conflicts of interest policy 
maintained by the firm in accordance with Article 34; and 
(i) 
(b) 
at the request of if requested by the client client, further details 
of that conflicts of interest policy the conflicts of interest 
policy in a durable medium durable medium or by means of 
via a website (where that does not constitute a durable 
medium durable medium) provided that the conditions set out 
Article 3(2) website conditions are satisfied. 
The information listed in points (a) to (i) shall be provided in good time 
before the provision of investment services or ancillary services to clients 
or potential clients. 
[Note: article 47(1) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
Information about a firm’s portfolio management service: MiFID business 
6.1ZA.8 
UK 
(1) 
47(2) When A firm providing the service of portfolio management a 
R 
portfolio management service, investment firms shall must establish 
an appropriate method of evaluation and comparison such as a 
meaningful benchmark, based on the investment objectives of the 
client client and the types of financial instruments financial 
instruments included in the client client portfolio, so as to enable the 
client for whom the service is provided client to assess the firm’s 
firm’s performance. 
(2) 
47(3) Where investment firms propose If a firm proposes to provide 
portfolio management services a portfolio management service to a 
client or potential client client, they the firm shall must provide the 
client client, in addition to the information required under paragraph 
1, with such of the following information as is applicable (in addition 
to the information required by COBS 6.1ZA.5R): 
(a) 
information on the method and frequency of valuation of the 
financial instruments financial instruments in the client client 
portfolio; 
(b) 
details of any delegation of the discretionary management of 
all or part of the financial instruments financial instruments or 
funds in the client client portfolio; 
(c) 
a specification of any benchmark against which the 
performance of the client client portfolio will be compared; 
Page 110 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(d) 
the types of financial instrument financial instrument that may 
be included in the client client portfolio and types of 
transaction that may be carried out in such instruments those 
financial instruments, including any limits; and 
(e) 
the management objectives, the level of risk to be reflected in 
the manager’s exercise of discretion, and any specific 
constraints on that discretion. 
(3) 
The information listed in points (a) to (e) shall be provided A firm 
must provide the information in (2) in good time before the provision 
of investment services investment services or ancillary services 
ancillary services to clients or potential clients a client. 
[Note: articles 47(2) and (3) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
Information concerning safeguarding of designated investments belonging to 
clients and client money: MiFID business 
6.1ZA.9 
UK 
(1) 
49(1) Investment firms holding financial instruments A firm that 
R 
holds financial instruments or funds client money belonging to clients 
for a client subject to the custody chapter or the client money chapter 
shall must provide those clients or potential clients that client with 
the following information specified in paragraphs 2 to 7 where 
relevant.: 
(a) 
if applicable: 
(i) 
49(2) The investment firm shall inform the client or 
potential client where that the financial instruments 
financial instruments or funds client money of that 
client client may be held by a third party on behalf of 
the investment firm firm; 
(ii) 
and of the responsibility of the investment firm firm 
under the applicable national law for any acts or 
omissions of the third party; and 
(iii) 
the consequences for the client client of the insolvency 
of the third party.; 
(b) 
49(3) Where financial instruments if applicable, that the 
financial instruments of the client or potential client client 
may, if permitted by national law, be held in an omnibus 
account by a third party, the investment firm shall inform the 
client of this fact and shall provide and a prominent warning 
of the resulting risks.; 
(c) 
49(4) The investment firm shall inform the client or potential 
client where if it is not possible under national law for client 
financial instruments financial instruments belonging to a 
Page 111 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
client held with a third party to be separately identifiable from 
the proprietary financial instruments financial instruments of 
that third party or of the investment firm firm, that fact and 
shall provide a prominent warning of the resulting risks.; 
(d) 
49(5) The investment firm shall inform the client or potential 
client where if applicable, that accounts that contain financial 
instruments financial instruments or funds client money 
belonging to that client or potential client client are or will be 
subject to the law of a jurisdiction other than that of the United 
Kingdom United Kingdom and shall indicate an indication that 
the rights of the client or potential client client relating to 
those financial instruments financial instruments or funds 
client money may differ accordingly. 
(2) 
49(6) An investment firm shall inform the client A firm that holds 
financial instruments or client money for a client must inform the 
client, if applicable: 
(a) 
about the existence and the terms of any security interest or 
lien which the firm firm has or may have over the client’s 
financial instruments client’s financial instruments or funds 
client money, or any right of set-off it holds in relation to those 
instruments the client’s financial instruments or funds. client 
money; and 
(b) 
Where applicable, it shall also inform the client of the fact that 
a depository may have a security interest or lien over, or right 
of set-off in relation to, those instruments financial 
instruments or funds client money. 
(3) 
49(7) An investment firm A firm that holds financial instruments or 
client money for a client must also, before entering into securities 
financing transactions securities financing transactions in relation to 
financial instruments financial instruments held by it on behalf of a 
client client, or before otherwise using such financial instruments 
financial instruments for its own account or the account of another 
client client, shall in good time before the use of those instruments 
financial instruments provide the client client, in a durable medium 
durable medium, with clear, full and accurate information on the 
obligations and responsibilities of the investment firm firm with 
respect to the use of those financial instruments financial instruments, 
including the terms for their restitution, and on the risks involved. 
[Note: article 49 of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
Information concerning safeguarding of client money: insurance distribution 
Page 112 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
6.1ZA.1 
R 
(1) 
Where a firm doing insurance distribution activities holds client 
0A 
money for a retail client and has elected to comply with the client 
money chapter, it must provide that client with the information 
specified in: 
… 
(b) 
(if it is a firm doing MiFID, equivalent third country or 
optional exemption business) COBS 6.1ZA.9UK COBS 
6.1ZA.9R and COBS 6.1.7R(1)(e); 
in relation to that client money. 
… 
… 
Costs and associated charges disclosure: MiFID 
[Editor’s note: Articles 50 and 51 of the MiFID Org Reg are being preserved 
without changes. They will be addressed as part of the FCA’s separate work on a 
new disclosure regime for certain retail investment products.] 
6.1ZA.1 
UK 
… 
4
R 
[Note: article 50 of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
6.1ZA.1 
G 
‘Annex II’ of the MiFID Org Regulation referred to in COBS 6.1ZA.14R is 
4A 
reproduced in COBS 6 Annex 7UK Annex 7R. 
… 
Timing of disclosure: MiFID business 
6.1ZA.1 
UK 
(1) 
46(2) Subject to paragraph 2A (2) and unless otherwise provided, 
7 
R 
investment firms a firm must, provide a client with the information 
required by this section in good time before the provision of 
investment services investment services or ancillary services 
ancillary services to clients or potential clients, to provide the 
information required under Articles 47 to 50. 
(2) 
46(2A) Where If the agreement to buy or sell a financial instrument 
financial instrument is concluded using a means of distance 
communication, which prevents the delivery of the information on 
costs and charges before that conclusion the firm: 
(a) 
the investment firm must give the client or potential client 
client the option of receiving the information on costs and 
charges over the telephone before the conclusion of the 
transaction; and 
Page 113 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.1ZA.1 
8 
6.1ZA.1 
9 
… 
6.1ZA.2 
0 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(b) 
may, subject to meeting satisfying the conditions referred to in 
paragraph 2B(a) and (b) in (3), the investment firm may 
provide the information on costs and charges to clients in: 
(i) 
in electronic format; or 
(ii) 
where if requested by a retail client or potential retail 
client retail client, on paper, 
without undue delay after the conclusion of the transaction. 
(3) 
46(2B) The conditions referred to in paragraph 2A(b) in (2)(b) are 
that: 
(a) 
the client or potential client client has requested and or 
consented to receiving the information without undue delay as 
soon as possible after the conclusion of the transaction; and 
(b) 
the investment firm firm has given the client or potential client 
client the option of delaying the conclusion of the transaction 
until the client has they have received the information. 
[Note: article 46(2), (2A) and (2B) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
G 
The following provisions of COBS reproduce the information requirements 
contained in Articles 47 to 50 of the MiFID Org Regulation: COBS 
6.1ZA.5UK, COBS 6.1ZA.8UK, COBS 6.1ZA.9UK, COBS 6.1ZA.14UK, 
and COBS 14.3A.5UK. [deleted] 
Medium of disclosure: MiFID business 
UK 
46(3) The Except where expressly provided, a firm must provide the 
R 
information referred to in paragraphs 1 to 2B shall be provided required by 
this section in relation to MiFID, equivalent third country or optional 
exemption business in a durable medium durable medium or by means of 
via a website (where if it does not constitute a durable medium durable 
medium) provided that where the conditions specified in Article 3(2) 
website conditions are satisfied. 
[Note: article 46(3) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
Keeping the client up to date: MiFID business 
UK 
(1) 
46(4) Investment firms shall A firm carrying on MiFID, equivalent 
R 
third country or optional exemption business must notify a client 
client in good time about any material change to the information 
provided under Articles 47 to 50 this section which is relevant to a 
service that the firm firm is providing to that client client. 
Page 114 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(2) 
That A firm must provide this notification shall be given in a durable 
medium durable medium if the information to which it relates is was 
given in a durable medium durable medium. 
[Note: article 46(4) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
Existing clients: MiFID business 
6.1ZA.2 
G 
(1) 
… 
1 
[Note: recital 69 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
… 
Record keeping: information about the firm and compensation information for 
MiFID business and insurance distribution 
6.1ZA.2 
G 
… 
3 
6.1ZA.2 
G 
A firm to which SYSC 9 applies is required to keep records of all services, 
4 
activities and transactions undertaken by it. 
6.1ZA.2 
R 
In complying with the requirements in SYSC 9, a firm to which those rules 
5 
apply must keep a record of the information provided to each client in 
compliance with the rules in this section applicable to MiFID, equivalent 
third country and optional exemption business. 
… 
6.2B 
Describing advice services 
Application 
… 
6.2B.4 
G 
… 
6.2B.4A G 
Certain provisions in this section require firms to provide clients with 
information ‘in good time’. Guidance on the provision of information ‘in 
good time’ can be found in COBS 1.4.2G. 
Introduction 
6.2B.5 
G 
This section transposed provisions in MiFID contains UK law on markets 
in financial instruments on describing advice services relating to financial 
instruments and structured deposits for all clients and reproduces a number 
Page 115 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
of provisions of the MiFID Org Regulation as explained in COBS 1.2. The 
requirements apply in relation to MiFID, equivalent third country or 
optional exemption business. The requirements are extended to apply to 
other investment advice and cover other retail investment products when 
the client is a retail client in the United Kingdom. 
… 
Interpretation of provisions marked “UK” the relevant rules: MiFID business 
6.2B.7 
R 
A firm must treat obligations in relation to financial instruments as 
extending to other retail investment products when complying with COBS 
6.2B.15R, COBS 6.2B.18R, COBS 6.2B.29R, COBS 6.2B.32R, COBS 
6.2B.35R and COBS 6.2B.36R (“the provisions relevant rules”) in this 
section marked “UK” in the course of MiFID business with a retail client in 
the United Kingdom. 
6.2B.8 
G 
References to financial instruments include structured deposits (but not 
other retail investment products) when a firm is complying with the 
provisions in this section marked “UK” relevant rules in the course of 
MiFID business with a retail client outside the United Kingdom or with a 
professional client. 
[Note: article 1(2) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
Interpretation of provisions marked “UK” the relevant rules: non-MiFID business 
6.2B.9 
R 
In relation to business that is not MiFID business, a firm must comply with 
provisions in this section marked “UK” as if they were rules the relevant 
rules but: 
(1) 
reading references to financial instruments as including structured 
deposits and (if the client is a retail client in the United Kingdom) 
other retail investment products; 
(2) 
(for business that is not equivalent business of a third country 
investment firm or MiFID optional exemption business) the firm need 
not comply with the following provisions of the MiFID Org 
Regulation requirement in: 
(a) 
the requirement in paragraph 2 of article 52(1) of the MiFID 
Org Regulation (reproduced in COBS 6.2B.32UK) COBS 
6.2B.32R(3) not to give undue prominence to their its 
independent advice services; 
(b) 
the requirement in article 52(4) of the MiFID Org Regulation 
(reproduced in COBS 6.2B.36UK) COBS 6.2B.36R(2)(c) to 
distinguish the range of financial instruments issued or 
provided by entities not being closely linked with the firm; and 
(c) 
the requirement in article 53(3)(c) of the MiFID Org 
Regulation (reproduced in COBS 6.2B.29UK) COBS 
Page 116 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
6.2B.29R(4) that a firm does not allow a natural person to 
provide both independent advice and restricted advice. 
… 
Requirements for firms providing focused independent advice 
6.2B.14 
G 
… 
[Note: recital 71 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
6.2B.15 
UK 
53(2) An investment firm A firm that provides investment advice on an 
R 
independent basis independent advice and that focuses on certain categories 
or a specified range of financial instruments financial instruments shall 
comply with the following requirements must: 
(a) 
the firm shall market itself in a way that is intended only to attract 
(1) 
clients clients with a preference for those categories or range of 
financial instruments financial instruments; 
(b) 
the firm shall require clients clients to indicate that they are only 
(2) 
interested in investing in the specified category or range of financial 
instruments financial instruments; and 
(c) 
prior to the provision of the service, the firm shall ensure that its 
(3) 
service is appropriate for each new client client on the basis that its 
business model matches: 
(a) 
the client’s client’s needs and objectives,; and 
(b) 
the range of financial instruments financial instruments that 
are suitable for the client client.; and 
(4) 
Where this is not the case the firm shall not provide such a its service 
to the client client if the firm is not satisfied as to the matters in (3). 
[Note: article 53(2) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
6.2B.16 
G 
(1) 
COBS 6.2B.15UK COBS 6.2B.15R means that a firm providing 
independent advice need not provide advice on all relevant products. 
A firm may market itself as, for example, an independent stockbroker 
that provides independent advice on shares only. A firm might 
alternatively market itself on the basis of providing independent 
advice on a particular product market such as ethical and socially 
responsible investments. The requirements in COBS 6.2B.15UK 
COBS 6.2B.15R apply to ensure that clients of a firm that provides 
independent advice on a focused basis properly understand the nature 
of the advice that they will receive and that the service is appropriate. 
… 
Sufficient range 
Page 117 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
6.2B.17 
G 
The extent of the assessment which a firm is required to undertake in order 
to meet the requirement to assess a sufficient range of relevant products 
will depend on: 
(1) 
the nature of the independent advice service provided by the firm 
(general or focused) for the purposes of COBS 6.2B.15UK COBS 
6.2B.15R; 
6.2B.18 
UK 
R 
… 
(1) 
(2) 
(d) 
(3) 
(4) 
53(1) Investment firms providing investment advice on an 
independent basis shall A firm that provides independent advice must 
define and implement a selection process to assess and compare a 
sufficient range of financial instruments financial instruments 
available on the market in accordance with [COBS 6.2B.11R]. 
The selection process shall in (1) must include the following elements 
ensure that: 
(a) 
the number and variety of financial instruments financial 
instruments considered is proportionate to the scope of 
investment advice services personal recommendations offered 
by the independent investment adviser; 
(b) 
the number and variety of financial instruments financial 
instruments considered is adequately representative of 
financial instruments the financial instruments available on the 
market; and 
(c) 
the quantity of financial instruments financial instruments 
issued by the investment firm firm itself or by entities closely 
linked to the investment firm itself it is proportionate to the 
total amount of financial instruments financial instruments 
considered; and. 
A firm must ensure that the criteria for selecting the various financial 
instruments financial instruments shall include for the purposes of 
(1): 
(a) 
consider all relevant aspects such as of the financial 
instruments including, but not limited to, risks, costs and 
complexity; 
(b) 
as well as consider the characteristics of the investment firm’s 
firm’s clients, clients; and 
(c) 
shall ensure that the selection of the instruments financial 
instruments that may be recommended is not biased. 
Where such a A firm that provides personal recommendations must 
not present itself as independent if the comparison in (1) is not 
Page 118 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
possible due to the business model of the firm or the specific scope of 
the service provided, the investment firm providing investment 
advice shall not present itself as independent. 
[Note: article 53(1) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
6.2B.19 
G 
… 
(2) 
Notwithstanding (1), since the assessment conducted by the firm must 
be such as to ensure the client’s investment objectives can be suitably 
met, a firm providing independent advice should be in a position to 
advise on all types of relevant product within the scope of the market 
(for the purposes of COBS 6.2B.15UK COBS 6.2B.15R) on which it 
provides advice. When the client is a retail client in the United 
Kingdom, this means being in a position to advise on all types of 
financial instrument, structured deposit and other retail investment 
products. 
… 
Guidance on the independence standard 
… 
6.2B.22 
G 
The fact that a firm is owned by, or owns, in whole or in part, the issuer or 
provider of relevant products does not prevent that firm from providing 
independent advice, provided that the firm’s assessment of relevant 
products is: 
… 
(3) 
not biased (COBS 6.2B.18UK COBS 6.2B.18R). 
… 
Requirements for firms providing both independent and restricted advice 
6.2B.29 
UK 
53(3) An investment firm offering investment advice on A firm that offers 
R 
both an independent basis independent advice and on a non-independent 
basis restricted advice shall must comply with the following obligations: 
(a) 
in good time before the provision of its services a personal 
(1) 
recommendation to a client, the investment firm has informed inform 
its clients that client, in a durable medium durable medium, whether 
the advice will be independent independent advice or non­
independent restricted advice in accordance with [COBS 6.2B.33R] 
and the relevant implementing measures to COBS 6.2B.36R; 
(b) 
the investment firm has presented present itself as independent for the 
(2) 
only in respect of those services for in relation to which it provides 
Page 119 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
investment advice personal recommendations on an independent 
basis; and 
(c) 
the investment firms has have adequate organisational requirements 
(3) 
and controls in place to ensure that: 
(a) 
both types of advice services and advisers are clearly 
separated from each other; and 
(b) 
that clients clients are: 
(i) 
not likely to be confused about the type of advice that 
they are receiving; and 
(ii) 
are given the type of advice that is appropriate for 
them.; and 
(4) 
The investment firm shall not allow a natural person to provide both 
independent independent advice and non-independent advice 
restricted advice. 
[Note: article 53(3) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
6.2B.32 
UK 
52(1) Where advice is offered or provided If a firm offers or provides both 
R 
independent advice and restricted advice to the same client client on both 
an independent and non-independent basis, investment firms shall it must: 
(1) 
explain the scope of both services to allow investors enable the client 
to understand the differences between them; and 
(2) 
not present itself as an independent investment adviser for the overall 
activity.; and 
(3) 
Firms shall not give undue prominence to their independent 
investment advice its independent advice services over its non­
independent investment restricted advice services in their its 
communications with clients clients. 
[Note: article 52(1) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
Disclosing the nature of advice provided 
… 
6.2B.35 
UK 
52(1) Investment firms shall A firm must explain to a client in a clear and 
R 
concise way: 
(1) 
whether and why investment advice a personal recommendation 
qualifies as independent independent advice or non-independent 
restricted advice; and 
Page 120 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
6.2B.36 
UK 
R 
(2) 
the type and nature of the any restrictions that apply, including, when 
if providing investment advice on an independent basis independent 
advice, the prohibition to receive and retain on receiving and 
retaining inducements. 
[Note: article 52(1) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
(1) 
52(2) Investment firms providing investment advice, on an 
independent or non-independent basis, shall A firm (whether 
providing independent advice or restricted advice) must: 
(a) 
explain to the client a client: 
(i) 
the range of financial instruments financial instruments 
that it may be recommended recommend, including; and 
(ii) 
the firm’s firm’s relationship with the issuers or 
providers of the instruments. any of those financial 
instruments; and 
(b) 
52(3) Investment firms shall in accordance with the scope of 
its service, provide to a client a description of: 
(i) 
the types of financial instruments financial instruments 
it has considered,; and 
(ii) 
the range of financial instruments financial instruments 
and providers it has analysed per in relation to each type 
of instrument according to the scope of the service, 
financial instrument. 
(2) 
and, when providing independent advice, A firm that provides 
independent advice must: 
(a) 
explain to a client how the service provided satisfies the 
conditions for the provision of investment advice on an 
independent basis independent advice (COBS 6.2B.11R); and 
(b) 
inform a client of the factors taken into consideration 
considered in the selection process used by the investment 
firm firm to recommend financial instruments provide its 
personal recommendation including, but not limited to, such 
as risks, costs and complexity of the financial instruments. 
financial instruments; and 
(c) 
52(4) When the range of financial instruments distinguish, in 
relation to each type of financial instrument assessed by the 
investment firm providing investment advice on an 
independent basis firm, the range of financial instruments 
issued or provided by entities not having any links with the 
firm, if the range of financial instruments assessed includes: 
Page 121 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(i) 
the investment firm’s firm’s own financial instruments 
financial instruments or those issued or provided by 
entities having close links (or any other close legal or 
economic relationship) with the investment firm as well 
as firm; and 
(ii) 
other issuers or providers which are not linked or 
related, the investment firm shall distinguish, for each 
type of financial instrument, the range of the financial 
instruments issued or provided by entities not having 
any links with the investment firm financial instruments 
issued or provided by other issuers or providers which 
are not linked or related to the firm. 
[Note: article 52(2), (3) and (4) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
Record keeping 
6.2B.40 
G 
… 
6.2B.40 
G 
A firm to which SYSC 9 applies is required to keep records of all services, 
A 
activities and transactions undertaken by it. 
6.2B.40 
R 
In complying with the requirements in SYSC 9, a firm to which those rules 
B 
apply must keep a record of the information provided to each client in 
compliance with the rules in this section applicable to MiFID, equivalent 
third country and optional exemption business. 
… 
6 
UK 
Identified costs that should form part of the costs to be disclosed to 
Annex 
R 
clients 
7 
This Annex belongs to COBS 6.1ZA.14UK COBS 6.1ZA.14R.1 
Table 1 – All costs and associated charges charged for the investment service(s) 
and/or ancillary services provided to the client that should form part of the 
amount to be disclosed. 
Cost items to be disclosed 
Examples 
One-off charges 
related to the 
provision of an 
investment 
service 
All costs and charges 
paid to the investment 
firm firm at the beginning 
or at the end of the 
provided investment 
Deposit fees, termination fees 
and switching costs². 
Page 122 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
service(s) provision of 
investment services. 
Ongoing charges 
All ongoing costs and 
Management fees, advisory fees, 
related to the 
charges paid to 
custodian fees. 
provision of an 
investment firms firms 
investment 
for their services 
service 
provided to the client 
client. 
All costs related 
All costs and charges that 
Broker commissions³, entry- and 
to transactions 
are related to transactions 
exit-charges paid to the fund 
initiated in the 
performed by the 
manager, platform fees, mark 
course of the 
investment firm firm or 
ups (embedded in the 
provision of an 
other parties. 
transaction price), stamp duty, 
investment 
transactions tax and foreign 
service 
exchange costs. 
Any charges that Any costs and charges 
Research costs. 
are related to 
that are related to 
Custody costs. 
ancillary services 
ancillary services 
ancillary services that are 
not included in the costs 
mentioned above. 
Incidental costs 
Performance fees. 
Table 2 – All costs and associated charges related to the financial instrument that 
should form part of the amount to be disclosed. 
Cost items to be disclosed 
Examples 
One-off charges 
All costs and charges 
(included in the price or 
in addition to the price of 
the financial instrument 
financial instrument) paid 
to product suppliers 
providers at the 
beginning or at the end of 
the investment in the 
financial instrument 
financial instrument. 
Front-loaded management fee, 
structuring fee4, distribution fee. 
Ongoing charges 
All ongoing costs and 
charges related to the 
management of the 
financial product 
financial instrument that 
Management fees, service costs, 
swap fees, securities lending 
costs and taxes, financing costs. 
Page 123 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
are deducted from the 
value of the financial 
instrument financial 
instrument during the 
period of the investment 
in the financial 
instrument financial 
instrument. 
All costs related 
to the 
transactions 
All costs and charges that 
are incurred as a result of 
the acquisition and 
disposal of investments 
financial instruments. 
Broker commissions, entry- and 
exit-charges paid by the fund, 
mark ups embedded in the 
transaction price, stamp duty, 
transactions tax and foreign 
exchange costs. 
Incidental costs 
Performance fees. 
¹ It should be noted that certain cost items appear in both tables but are not 
duplicative since they respectively refer to costs of the product and costs of the 
service. Examples are the management fees (in Table 1, this refers to management 
fees charged by an investment firm a firm providing the service of portfolio 
management portfolio management to its clients clients, while in Table 2 this 
refers to management fees charged by an investment fund manager to its investor) 
and broker commissions (in Table 1, this refers to commissions incurred by the 
investment firm firm when trading on behalf of its clients clients, while in Table 2 
this refers to commissions paid by investment funds when trading on behalf of the 
fund). 
² Switching costs should be understood as costs (if any) that are incurred by 
investors clients by switching from one investment firm firm to another 
investment firm. 
³ Broker commissions should be understood as costs that are charged by 
investment firms firms for the execution of orders. 
4 Structuring fees should be understood as fees charged by manufacturers of 
structured investment products for structuring the products. They may cover a 
broader range of services provided by the manufacturer. 
[Note: Annex II of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
8A 
Client agreements (MiFID provisions) 
8A.1 
Client agreements (MiFID, equivalent third country or optional exemption 
business) 
Application and purpose provisions 
Page 124 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
… 
8A.1.2 
R 
Provisions in this chapter marked “UK” apply to MiFID optional 
exemption firms as if they were rules. [deleted] 
8A.1.3 
G 
In order to provide legal certainty and enable clients clients to better 
understand the nature of the services with which they are provided, 
investment firms firms that provide investment investment services or 
ancillary services ancillary services to clients clients should enter into a 
written basic agreement with the client client, setting out the essential rights 
and obligations of the firm firm and the client client. 
[Note: recital 90 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
8A.1.3A G 
Certain provisions in this section require firms to provide clients with 
information ‘in good time’. Guidance on the provision of information ‘in 
good time’ can be found in COBS 1.4.2G. 
Providing a client agreement: retail and professional clients 
8A.1.4 
UK 
(1) 
Investment firms providing any investment service or the ancillary 
R 
service referred to in paragraph 1 of Part 3A of Schedule 2 to the 
Regulated Activities Order to a client after the date of application of 
this Regulation This rule applies to a firm that provides to a client: 
(a) 
an investment service; or 
(b) 
the ancillary service in paragraph 1 of Part 3A of Schedule 2 
to the Regulated Activities Order (safekeeping and 
administration of financial instruments). 
(2) 
A firm shall must enter into a written basic agreement with the client 
client, in on paper or in another durable medium, durable medium. 
with the client setting out the essential rights and obligations of the 
firm and the client. 
(3) 
Investment firms providing investment advice shall comply with this 
obligation The requirement in (2) only applies to a firm that provides 
investment advice where the firm will undertake a periodic assessment 
of the suitability of the financial instruments financial instruments or 
services recommended is performed. 
(4) 
The written agreement in (2) shall must set out the essential rights and 
obligations of the parties, firm and the client and shall must include 
the following: 
(a) 
a description of the services, and where relevant the nature 
and extent of the investment advice any personal 
recommendation, to be provided; 
Page 125 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(b) 
in case of portfolio management services, if the services 
covered by the agreement include portfolio management: 
(i) 
the types of financial instruments financial 
instruments that may be purchased and sold and; 
(ii) 
the types of transactions that may be undertaken on 
behalf of the client client, as well as; and 
(iii) 
any instruments or transactions that are prohibited; 
and 
(c) 
a description of the main features of any services referred to 
in paragraph 1 of Part 3A of Schedule 2 to the Regulated 
Activities Order of the type in (1)(b) to be provided, 
including where applicable: 
(i) 
the role of the firm firm with respect to corporate 
actions relating to client client instruments; and 
(ii) 
the terms on which securities financing transactions 
securities financing transactions involving client 
client securities will generate a return for the client 
client. 
[Note: article 58 of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
General requirement for information to clients 
8A.1.5 
UK 
(1) 
46(1) Investment firms shall, in good time before a client or potential 
R 
client is bound by any agreement for the provision of investment 
services or ancillary services or before the provision of those services, 
whichever is the earlier to A firm must provide that client or potential 
client a client with the following information: 
(a) 
the terms of any such agreement for the provision of 
investment services or ancillary services; and 
(b) 
the information required by Article 47 COBS 6.1ZA.5R and 
COBS 6.1ZA.8R relating to that agreement or to those 
investment investment services or ancillary services ancillary 
services. 
(2) 
The firm must provide the terms and information in (1): 
(a) 
in good time before the client is bound by the agreement; or 
(b) 
if earlier, before the provision of the relevant investment 
services or ancillary services. 
[Note: article 46(1) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
Page 126 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
8.1.6 
UK 
46(2) Subject to paragraph 2A, investment firms must, in good time before 
the provision of investment services or ancillary services to clients or 
potential clients, to provide the information required under Articles 47 to 
50. 
46(2A) Where the agreement to buy or sell a financial instrument is 
concluded using a means of distance communication, which prevents the 
delivery of the information on costs and charges before that conclusion: 
(a) 
the investment firm must give the client or potential client the option 
of receiving the information on costs and charges over the telephone 
before the conclusion of the transaction; and 
(b) 
subject to meeting the conditions referred to in paragraph 2B(a) and 
(b), the investment firm may provide the information on costs and 
charges to clients in: 
(i) 
electronic format; or 
(ii) 
where requested by a retail client or potential retail client, on 
paper, without undue delay after the conclusion of the 
transaction. 
46(2B) The conditions referred to in paragraph 2A(b) are: 
(a) 
the client or potential client has requested and consented to receiving 
the information without undue delay after the conclusion of the 
transaction; and 
the investment firm has given the client or potential client the option 
(b) 
of delaying the conclusion of the transaction until the client has 
received the information. [deleted] 
[Note: article 46(2), (2A) and (2B) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
8A.1.7 
UK 
46(3) The information referred to in paragraphs 1 to 2B shall COBS 
R 
8A.1.5R must be provided in a durable medium durable medium or by 
means of a website (where if it does not constitute a durable medium 
durable medium) provided that the conditions specified in Article 3(2) 
website conditions are satisfied. 
[Note: article 46(3) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
Avoiding duplicate information 
8A.1.8 
G 
(1) 
Articles 47 to 50 of the MiFID Org Regulation require Rules in COBS 
6.1ZA and COBS 14.3A require a firm to provide a client with 
information about: 
… 
Page 127 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
… 
(3) 
The requirements for firms to provide clients with the information 
referred to in (1) are set out at COBS 6.1ZA. [deleted] 
[Note: recital 84 to MiFID] 
Record keeping: client agreements 
… 
8A.1.10 
UK 
73 Records which set out the respective rights and obligations of the 
R 
investment firm firm and the client client under an agreement to provide 
services, or the terms on which the firm firm provides services to the client 
client, shall must be retained for at least the duration of the relationship 
with the client client. 
[Note: article 73 of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
9A 
Suitability (MiFID and insurance-based investment products provisions) 
9A.1 
Application and purpose 
… 
Effect of provisions marked “UK” for third country investment firms and MiFID 
optional exemption firms 
9A.1.2 
R 
Provisions in this chapter marked “UK” and including a Note (‘Note:’) 
referring to the MiFID Org Regulation apply in relation to MiFID optional 
exemption business as if they were rules. [deleted] 
9A.1.3 
G 
The effect of GEN 2.2.22AR is that provisions in this chapter marked “UK” 
also apply in relation to the equivalent business of a third country 
investment firm as if they were rules. [deleted] 
9A.2 
Assessing suitability: the obligations 
… 
9A.2.2 
G 
… 
[Note: recital 87 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
9A.2.3 
G 
… 
[Note: recital 89 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
Page 128 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
Assessing the extent of the information required: MiFID business 
9A.2.4 
UK 
54(2) Investment firms shall A firm must: 
R 
(1) 
determine the extent of the information to be collected obtained from 
clients a client in light of all the features of the investment advice or 
portfolio management services service to be provided to those clients. 
that client; and 
(2) 
Investment firms shall obtain from clients or potential clients the 
client such information as is necessary for the firm firm to understand 
the essential facts about the client client and to have a reasonable 
basis for determining, giving due consideration to the nature and 
extent of the service provided, that the specific transaction to be 
recommended, or entered into in the course of providing a portfolio 
management portfolio management service, satisfies the following 
criteria: 
(a) 
it meets the investment objectives of the client client in 
question, including client’s their risk tolerance; 
(b) 
it is such that the client client is able financially to bear any 
related investment risks consistent with his their investment 
objectives; and 
(c) 
it is such that the client client has the necessary experience 
and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in 
the transaction or in the management of his their portfolio. 
[Note: article 54(2) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
Professional clients: MiFID business 
9A.2.5 
UK 
54(3) Where an investment firm provides an investment service to If the 
R 
client is a professional client a professional client it shall be entitled to the 
firm can assume that: 
(1) 
in relation to the products, transactions and services for which it is so 
classified, the client client has the necessary level of experience and 
knowledge for the purposes of point (c) of paragraph 2. COBS 
9A.2.4R(2)(c); and 
(2) 
Where that investment service consists in the provision of investment 
advice to a professional client covered by Part 2 of Schedule 1 to 
Regulation (EU) No 600/2014, the investment firm shall be entitled to 
assume (in relation to the provision of investment advice to a per se 
professional client only) for the purposes of point (b) of paragraph 2 
COBS 9A.2.4R(2)(b), that the client client is able financially to bear 
Page 129 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
any related investment risks consistent with the investment objectives 
of that client client. 
[Note: article 54(3) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
Obtaining information about knowledge and experience: MiFID business 
9A.2.6 
UK 
55(1) Investment firms shall ensure that the The information regarding a 
R 
client’s or potential client’s client’s knowledge and experience in the 
investment field includes the following must include, to the extent 
appropriate to the nature of the client client, the nature and extent of the 
service to be provided and the type of product or transaction envisaged, 
including their complexity and the risks involved, information on: 
(a) 
the types of service, transaction and financial instrument financial 
(1) 
instrument with which the client client is familiar; 
(b) 
the nature, volume, and frequency of the client’s client’s transactions 
(2) 
in financial instruments financial instruments and the period over 
which they have been carried out; 
(c) 
the level of education, and profession or relevant former profession of 
(3) 
the client or potential client client. 
[Note: article 55(1) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
Obtaining information about a client’s financial situation: MiFID business 
9A.2.7 
UK 
54(4) The information regarding the financial situation of the client or 
R 
potential client shall client must include, where relevant, information on the 
source and extent of his their regular income, his their assets, including 
liquid assets, investments and real property, and his their regular financial 
commitments. 
[Note: article 54(4) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
Obtaining information about a client’s investment objectives: MiFID business 
9A.2.8 
UK 
54(5) The information regarding the investment objectives of the client or 
R 
potential client shall client must include, where relevant, information on the 
length of time for which the client wishes they wish to hold the investment, 
his their preferences regarding risk taking, his their risk profile, and the 
purposes of the investment. 
[Note: article 54(5) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
Page 130 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
Reliability of information: MiFID business 
9A.2.9 
UK 
(1) 
54(7) Investment firms shall A firm must take reasonable steps to 
R 
ensure that the information collected about their clients or potential 
clients its clients is reliable. 
(2) 
This shall The steps in (1) must include, but shall are not be limited 
to, the following: 
(a) 
ensuring clients clients are aware of the importance of 
providing accurate and up-to-date information; 
(b) 
ensuring all tools, such as risk assessment profiling tools or 
tools to assess a client’s client’s knowledge and experience, 
employed in the suitability assessment process are fit-for­
purpose and are appropriately designed for use with their 
clients the firm’s clients, with any limitations identified and 
actively mitigated through the suitability assessment process; 
(c) 
ensuring questions used in the process are likely to be 
understood by clients clients, capture an accurate reflection of 
the client’s client’s objectives and needs, and the information 
necessary to undertake the suitability assessment; and 
(d) 
taking steps, as appropriate, to ensure the consistency of 
client client information, such as by considering whether 
there are obvious inaccuracies in the information provided by 
clients clients. 
[Note: article 54(7) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
Maintaining adequate and up-to-date information: MiFID business 
9A.2.10 
UK 
54(7) Investment firms having If a firm has an on-going relationship with 
R 
the client a client, such as by providing an on-going advice or portfolio 
management service portfolio management, shall it must have, and be able 
to demonstrate, appropriate policies and procedures to maintain adequate 
and up-to-date information about clients that client to the extent necessary 
to fulfil the requirements under paragraph 2 COBS 9A.2.4R. 
[Note: article 54(7) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
Discouraging the provision of information: MiFID business 
9A.2.11 
UK 
55(2) An investment firm shall A firm must not discourage encourage a 
R 
client or potential client from providing client not to provide information 
required for the purposes of [COBS 9A.2.1R and COBS 10A.2.1R]. 
[Note: article 55(2) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
Page 131 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
… 
Reliance on information: MiFID business 
9A.2.12 
UK 
55(3) An investment firm shall be A firm is entitled to rely on the 
R 
information provided by its clients or potential clients clients unless it is 
aware or ought to be aware that the information is manifestly out of date, 
inaccurate or incomplete. 
[Note: article 55(3) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
Insufficient information: MiFID business 
9A.2.13 
UK 
54(8) Where, when providing the investment service of investment advice 
R 
or portfolio management, an investment firm If a firm does not obtain the 
information required under [COBS 9A.2.1R], the firm shall it must not 
recommend investment services investment services or financial 
instruments financial instruments to the client or potential client client. 
[Note: article 54(8) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
Identifying the subject of a suitability assessment: MiFID business 
9A.2.15 
UK 
(1) 
54(6) Where a client If a client is a legal person or a group of two or 
R 
more natural persons, or where if one or more natural persons are 
represented by another natural person, the investment firm shall firm 
must establish, record and implement a policy which sets out: 
(a) 
as to who should be subject to the suitability assessment; and 
(b) 
how this the suitability assessment will be done in practice, 
including from whom information about knowledge and 
experience, financial situation and investment objectives 
should be collected. The investment firm shall record this 
policy. 
(2) 
For the purposes of (1): 
(a) 
Where if a natural person is represented by another natural 
person or where, the financial situation and investment 
objectives to be considered must be those of the underlying 
client rather than of the representative. However, the 
knowledge and experience must be that of the representative 
or the person authorised to carry out transactions on behalf of 
the underlying client; and 
(b) 
if a legal person having requested treatment as professional 
client in accordance with Part 3 of Schedule 1 to Regulation 
Page 132 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(EU) No 600/2014 is to be considered for the suitability 
assessment is an elective professional client, the financial 
situation and investment objectives shall to be considered 
must be those of the legal person or, in relation to the natural 
person, the underlying client rather than of the representative. 
The knowledge and experience shall must be that of the 
representative of the natural person or the person authorised 
to carry out transactions on behalf of the underlying client 
client. 
[Note: article 54(6) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
Switching: MiFID business 
9A.2.18 
UK 
54(11) When providing investment advice investment advice or portfolio 
management services portfolio management to retail clients that involve 
R 
involves switching investments, either by selling an instrument and buying 
another or by exercising a right to make a change in regard to an existing 
instrument, investment firms shall a firm must collect the necessary 
information on the client’s client’s existing investments financial 
instruments and the recommended new investments financial instruments 
and shall undertake an analysis of the costs and benefits of the switch, such 
that they are reasonably able to demonstrate that the benefits of switching 
are greater than the costs. 
The requirements laid down in the first subparagraph do not apply to 
services provided to professional clients. 
[Note: article 54(11) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
Adequate policies and procedures: MiFID business 
9A.2.19 
UK 
54(9) Investment firms shall A firm must have in place, and be able to 
R 
demonstrate, adequate policies and procedures in place to ensure that they 
understand: 
(1) 
it understands the nature, and features, including the costs and risks, 
of investment services the investment services and financial 
instruments financial instruments selected for their clients its clients; 
and 
(2) 
that they assess, while taking into account cost and complexity, it 
assesses whether equivalent investment services investment services 
or financial instruments can financial instruments could meet their 
client’s its client’s profile. 
[Note: article 54(9) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
Page 133 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
Unsuitability: MiFID business 
9A.2.20 
UK 
54(10) When providing the investment service of investment advice 
R 
investment advice or portfolio management, portfolio management an 
investment firm shall a firm must not recommend or decide to trade where 
none of the services or instruments are suitable for the client client. 
[Note: article 54(10) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
Guidance on assessing suitability: MiFID business and insurance-based 
investment products 
9A.2.21 
G 
… 
[Note: recital 88 to the MiFID Org Regulation, recital 9 to the IDD 
Regulation] 
… 
Automated or semi-automated systems: MiFID business 
9A.2.23 
UK 
54(1) Where investment advice or portfolio management services are 
R 
provided A firm that provides investment advice or portfolio management 
services (in whole or in part) through an automated or semi-automated 
system, the responsibility to undertake remains responsible for the 
suitability assessment shall lie with the investment firm providing the 
service and shall not be reduced required by this section. That obligation is 
not affected by the use of an electronic system in making the personal 
recommendation personal recommendation or decision to trade. 
[Note: second paragraph of article 54(1) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
9A.3 
Information to be provided to the client 
Explaining the reasons for assessing suitability: MiFID business 
9A.3.1 
UK 
(1) 
54(1) Investment firms shall A firm must not create any ambiguity or 
R 
confusion about their its responsibilities in the process when assessing 
the suitability of investment services investment services or financial 
instruments financial instruments in accordance with [COBS 
9A.2.1R]. 
(2) 
When undertaking the suitability assessment, the firm shall a firm 
must inform clients or potential clients the client, clearly and simply, 
that the reason for assessing suitability is to enable the firm firm to act 
in the client’s client’s best interest. 
Page 134 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
[Note: first paragraph of article 54(1) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
Providing a suitability report: MiFID business 
9A.3.3 
UK 
(1) 
54(12) When providing investment advice, investment firms shall 
R 
investment advice to a retail client a firm must provide the client with 
a report to the retail client that includes an outline of: 
(a) 
the advice given and how the recommendation provided is 
suitable for the retail client them, including; 
(b) 
how it the recommendation meets the client’s their objectives 
and personal circumstances with reference to: 
(i) 
the investment term required,; 
(ii) 
client’s their knowledge and experience; and 
(iii) 
client’s their attitude to risk and capacity for loss. 
(2) 
Investment firms shall draw clients’ attention to and shall A firm must 
include in the suitability report suitability report information on 
whether the recommended services or instruments are likely to 
require the retail client retail client to seek a periodic review of their 
arrangements, and draw the client’s attention to this information. 
(3) 
Where an investment firm Paragraph (4) applies to a firm that 
provides a service that involves involving periodic assessments of 
suitability. 
(4) 
Following the first suitability report provided to the client at the 
commencement of the service, any assessments and reports, the 
subsequent reports: after the initial service is established 
(a) 
may need only cover changes in: 
(i) 
the relevant services or instruments; involved and/or 
(ii) 
the circumstances of the client client; and 
(b) 
may not need not to repeat all of the details of information in 
the first report. 
[Note: article 54(12) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
9A.3.3A R 
… 
Guidance on suitability reports 
Page 135 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
9A.3.4 
G 
… 
9A.3.5 
G 
… 
[Note: recital 85 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
9A.3.5A G 
Certain provisions in this section require firms to provide clients with 
information ‘in good time’. Guidance on the provision of information ‘in 
good time’ can be found in COBS 1.4.2G. 
… 
Periodic assessments: MiFID business 
9A.3.8 
UK 
(1) 
52(5) Investments firms providing This rule applies to a firm that 
R 
provides a client with a periodic assessment of the suitability of the 
recommendations provided pursuant to Article 54(12) COBS 
9A.3.3R. 
(2) 
The firm must shall disclose all of the following to the client: 
(a) 
the frequency and extent of the periodic suitability 
assessment and, where relevant, the conditions that trigger 
that assessment; 
(b) 
the extent to which the information previously collected will 
be subject to reassessment; and 
(c) 
the way in which an updated recommendation will be 
communicated to the client client. 
[Note: article 52(5) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
9A.3.9 
UK 
(1) 
54(13) Investment firms A firm providing a periodic suitability 
R 
assessment shall must review, in order to enhance the service, the 
suitability of the recommendations given at least annually. 
(2) 
The frequency of this the periodic suitability assessment shall must be 
increased depending on where appropriate by reference to the risk 
profile of the client client and the type of financial instruments 
financial instruments recommended. 
[Note: article 54(13) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
9A.4 
Record keeping and retention periods for suitability records 
… 
9A.4.2 
R 
… 
Page 136 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
Record keeping: MiFID business 
9A.4.2A R 
In complying with the requirements in SYSC 9, a firm to which those rules 
apply must keep a record of: 
(1) 
its compliance with the rules in COBS 9A.2 and COBS 9A.3 
applicable to MiFID, equivalent third country and optional exemption 
business in respect of each assessment of suitability it undertakes; 
(2) 
its compliance with COBS 9A.3.6R in informing each client to which 
it provides investment advice whether it will provide a periodic 
assessment of suitability; and 
(3) 
in respect of investment advice provided to a retail client: 
(a) 
the time and date on which the investment advice was 
provided; 
(b) 
the financial instrument that was recommended; and 
(c) 
the suitability report provided to the client. 
… 
10 
Appropriateness (for non-advised services) (non-MiFID and non-insurance­
based investment products provisions) 
10.1 
Application 
10.1.2 
R 
… 
( 
The rules in this chapter also apply to: 
2 
) 
(a) a TP firm (to the extent that the rule does not already apply to 
such a TP firm as a result of GEN 2.2.26R); and 
(b 
a Gibraltar-based firm to the extent that the rule does not already 
) 
apply to such a Gibraltar-based firm as a result of GEN 2.3.1R). 
[deleted] 
… 
[Editor’s note: The application of this sourcebook to TP firms and Gibraltar-based 
firms is now addressed in COBS 1 Annex 2.] 
… 
10A 
Appropriateness (for non-advised services) (MiFID and insurance-based 
investment products provisions) 
Page 137 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
10A.1 
Application 
… 
Application 
… 
10A.1.3 
R 
The effect of GEN 2.2.22AR is that provisions in this chapter marked “UK” 
and including a Note (‘Note:’) referring to the MiFID Org Regulation also 
apply in relation to the equivalent business of a third country investment 
firm as if they were rules. [deleted] 
10A.2 
Assessing appropriateness: the obligations 
… 
Assessing a client’s knowledge and experience: MiFID business 
10A.2.3 
UK 
(1) 
56(1) Investment firms, shall When assessing appropriateness, a firm 
R 
must determine whether that client the client has the necessary 
experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in 
relation to the product or investment service investment service 
offered or demanded when assessing whether an investment service 
as referred to in [COBS 10A.1.1R] is appropriate for a client. 
(2) 
An investment firm shall be entitled to A firm may assume that a 
professional client professional client has the necessary experience 
and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in relation to 
those particular investment services the investment services or 
transactions, or types of transaction or product, for which the client is 
they are classified as a professional client professional client. 
[Note: article 56(1) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
Information regarding a client’s knowledge and experience: MiFID business 
10A.2.4 
UK 
(1) 
55(1) Investment firms shall ensure that For the purposes of COBS 
R 
10A.2.1R, the information regarding a client’s or potential client’s 
client’s knowledge and experience in the investment field includes the 
following, to the extent appropriate to the nature of the client, the 
nature and extent of the service to be provided and the type of product 
or transaction envisaged, including their complexity and the risks 
involved information on: 
(a) 
the types of service, transaction and financial instrument 
financial instrument with which the client client is familiar; 
Page 138 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(b) 
the nature, volume, and frequency of the client’s client’s 
transactions in financial instruments financial instruments 
and the period over which they have been carried out; and 
(c) 
the level of education, and profession or relevant former 
profession of the client or potential client client. 
(2) 
The information requirements in (1) apply to the extent appropriate 
to: 
(a) 
the nature of the client; 
(b) 
the nature and extent of the service to be provided; and 
(c) 
the type of product or transaction envisaged, including its 
complexity and the risks involved. 
[Note: article 55(1) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
Discouraging the provision of information: MiFID business 
10A.2.5 
UK 
55(2) An investment firm shall A firm must not discourage a client or 
R 
potential client client from providing information required for the purposes 
of [COBS 9A.2.1R and COBS 10A.2.1R]. 
[Note: article 55(2) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
Reliance on information: MiFID business 
10A.2.6 
UK 
55(3) An investment firm shall be A firm is entitled to rely on the 
R 
information provided by its clients or potential clients a client unless it is 
aware or ought to be aware that the information is manifestly out of date, 
inaccurate or incomplete. 
[Note: article 55(3) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
Knowledge and experience: MiFID business and insurance-based investment 
products 
10A.2.8 
G 
Depending on the circumstances, a firm may be satisfied that the client’s 
knowledge alone is sufficient for him them to understand the risks involved 
in a product or service. Where reasonable, a firm may infer knowledge 
from experience. 
Increasing the client’s understanding: MiFID business and insurance-based 
investment products 
Page 139 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
10A.2.9 
G 
If, before assessing appropriateness, a firm seeks to increase the client’s 
level of understanding of a service or product by providing information to 
him them, relevant considerations are likely to include the nature and 
complexity of the information and the client’s existing level of 
understanding. 
… 
10A.4 
Assessing appropriateness: when it need not be done due to type of 
investment 
… 
Other non-complex financial instruments 
10A.4.2 
UK 
57 A financial instrument which is not explicitly specified in [COBS 
R 
10A.4.1R(2)] shall be considered as A financial instrument is non-complex 
for the purposes of paragraph (2)(f) of that rule COBS 10A.4.1R(2)(f) if it 
satisfies the following criteria: 
(a) 
it does not fall within Article 2(1)(24)(c) of Regulation (EU) No 
(1) 
600/2014 or paragraphs 4 to 11 of Part 1 of Schedule 2 to the 
Regulated Activities Order it is not: 
(a) 
a derivative; 
(b) 
a security giving the right to acquire or sell a transferable 
security or giving rise to a cash settlement determined by 
reference to transferable securities, currencies, interest rates 
or yields, commodities or other indices or measures; or 
(c) 
an emission allowance; 
(b) 
there are frequent opportunities to dispose of, redeem, or otherwise 
(2) 
realise that instrument at prices that are publicly available to market 
participants and that are either market prices or prices made available, 
or validated, by valuation systems independent of the issuer; 
(c) 
it does not involve any actual or potential liability for the client client 
(3) 
that exceeds the cost of acquiring the instrument; 
(d) 
it does not incorporate a clause, condition or trigger that could 
(4) 
fundamentally alter the nature or risk of the investment financial 
instrument or pay out profile, such as investments a financial 
instrument that incorporate incorporates a right to convert the 
instrument it into a different investment; 
(e) 
it does not include any explicit or implicit exit charges that have the 
(5) 
effect of making the investment financial instrument illiquid even 
though there are technically frequent opportunities to dispose of, 
redeem or otherwise realise it; and 
Page 140 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(f) 
adequately comprehensive information on its characteristics is 
(6) 
publicly available and is likely to be readily understood so as to 
enable the average retail client retail client to make an informed 
judgment as to whether to enter into a transaction in that instrument. 
[Note: article 57 of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
10A.7 
Record keeping and retention periods for appropriateness records 
… 
Record keeping: MiFID business 
10A.7.2 
UK 
(1) 
56(2) Investment firms shall A firm must maintain records of the 
R 
appropriateness assessments undertaken which shall include the 
following: it undertakes. 
(2) 
The records maintained under (1) must include: 
(a) 
the result of the appropriateness assessment; 
(b) 
any warning given to the client a client: 
(i) 
where the investment service that an investment 
service or product purchase was had been assessed as 
potentially inappropriate for the client, whether the 
client asked to proceed with the transaction despite 
the warning and, where applicable, whether the firm 
accepted the client’s request to proceed with the 
transaction them; or 
(ii) 
that the client did not provide sufficient information 
to enable the firm to undertake an appropriateness 
assessment; 
(c) 
any warning given to the client where the client did not 
provide sufficient information to enable the firm to undertake 
an appropriateness assessment, whether the client asked to 
proceed with the transaction despite this warning and, where 
applicable, whether the firm accepted the client’s request to 
proceed with the transaction whether the client asked to 
proceed with a transaction despite being given a warning in 
(b); and 
(d) 
if applicable, whether the firm accepted the client’s request to 
proceed with a transaction despite being given a warning in 
(b). 
[Note: article 56(2) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
Page 141 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
… 
11 
Dealing and managing 
11.1 
Application 
General application 
… 
11.1.2 
R 
Save as may be provided in the relevant sections, in this chapter, provisions 
marked “UK” apply to a firm which is not a MiFID investment firm as if 
they were rules. [deleted] 
11.1.2A 
G 
Certain provisions in this chapter require firms to provide clients with 
information ‘in good time’. Guidance on the provision of information ‘in 
good time’ can be found in COBS 1.4.2G. 
Application of section on personal account dealing 
11.1.4 
The section on personal account dealing applies to the designated investment 
business of a firm in relation to activities carried on from an establishment 
establishment in the United Kingdom. 
… 
11.2A 
Best execution – MiFID provisions 
11.2A.1 
R 
(1) 
Subject to (2) to (4), the following provisions apply to a firm’s 
business other than MiFID business as if they were rules: 
(a) 
provisions within this chapter marked “UK”. [deleted] 
… 
(4) 
… 
(5) 
Where a firm that provides the service of portfolio management or 
reception and transmission of orders also executes the orders received 
or the decision to deal on behalf of its client’s portfolio: 
(a) 
it must comply with COBS 11.2A.8R and COBS 11.2A.25R; 
and 
(b) 
COBS 11.2A.34R does not apply. 
… 
Application of best execution obligation 
… 
Page 142 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
11.2A.4 
G 
… 
[Note: first sentence, recital 103 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
11.2A.6 
G 
… 
[Note: second sentence, recital 103 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
11.2A.7 
G 
… 
[Note: recital 104 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
Best execution criteria 
11.2A.8 
UK 
(1) 
64(1) When A firm must, when executing client client orders, 
R 
investment firms shall take into account the following criteria for 
determining the relative importance of the factors referred to in 
[COBS 11.2A.2R] execution factors: 
(a) 
the characteristics of the client client, including the 
categorisation of the client client as retail or professional; 
(b) 
the characteristics of the client client order, including where 
the order involves a securities financing transaction (SFT) 
securities financing transaction; 
(c) 
the characteristics of financial instruments financial 
instruments that are the subject of that order; 
(d) 
the characteristics of the execution venues execution venues 
to which that order can be directed. 
For the purposes of this Article and Articles 65 and 66, ‘execution 
venue’ includes a regulated market, an MTF, an OTF, a systematic 
internaliser, or a market maker or other liquidity provider or an entity 
that performs a similar function in a third country to the functions 
performed by any of the foregoing. 
(2) 
An investment firm A firm satisfies its obligation under [COBS 
11.2A.2R, COBS 11.2A.3G, COBS 11.2A.9R, COBS 11.2A.12R and 
COBS 11.2A.15R] to take all sufficient steps to obtain the best 
possible result for a client MiFID best execution obligation to the 
extent that it executes an order or a specific aspect of an order 
following specific instructions from the client client relating to the 
order or the specific aspect of the order. 
(3) 
Investment firms shall A firm must not structure or charge their its 
commissions in such a way as to discriminate unfairly between 
execution venues execution venues. 
Page 143 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(4) 
When A firm must, when executing orders or taking decision 
decisions to deal in OTC OTC products including bespoke products, 
the investment firm shall check the fairness of the price proposed to 
the client client, by gathering market data used in the estimation of 
the price of such product and, where possible, by comparing with 
similar or comparable products. 
Role of price 
… 
11.2A.1 
G 
… 
0 
[Note: recital 101 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
11.2A.1 
G 
… 
1 
[Note: recital 101 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
Following specific instructions from a client 
… 
11.2A.1 
G 
… 
3 
[Note: recital 102 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
11.2A.1 
G 
… 
4 
[Note: recital 102 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
Execution policies 
11.2A.2 
UK 
(1) 
66 (1) Investment firms shall A firm must review, its order execution 
5 
R 
policy and order execution arrangements: 
(a) 
at least on an annual basis; and 
(b) 
execution policy established pursuant to [COBS 11.2A.20R], 
as well as their order execution arrangements. Such a review 
shall also be carried out whenever a material change as 
defined in Article 65(7) occurs upon occurrence of a material 
change that affects the firm’s firm’s ability to continue to 
obtain the best possible result for the execution of its client 
Page 144 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
client orders on a consistent basis using the venues included 
in its execution policy., 
An investment firm shall assess whether a material change has 
occurred and shall and as part of such review, must consider making 
changes to the relative importance of the best execution factors 
execution factors in meeting the overarching best execution 
requirement its MiFID best execution obligation. 
(2) 
The information on the execution policy shall must be customised 
depending on the class of financial instrument financial instrument 
and type of the service provided and shall must include information 
set out in paragraphs 3 to 9 (3) to (9). 
(3) 
Investment firms shall A firm must provide clients clients, in a 
durable medium (or by means of a website, in accordance with the 
website conditions to the extent it is not a durable medium), with the 
following details on their its execution policy in good time prior to 
the provision of the service: 
(a) 
in compliance with COBS 11.2A.8R(1), an account of the 
relative importance the investment firm firm assigns, in 
accordance with the criteria specified in Article 59(1), to the 
factors referred to in [COBS 11.2A.2R] execution factors, or 
the process by which the firm firm determines the relative 
importance of those factors.; 
(b) 
a list of the execution venues execution venues on which the 
firm firm places significant reliance in meeting its obligation 
to take all reasonable steps to obtain on a consistent basis the 
best possible result for the execution of client orders MiFID 
best execution obligation and specifying which execution 
venues execution venues are used for each class of financial 
instruments financial instruments, for retail client retail client 
orders, professional client professional client orders and SFTs 
securities financing transactions; 
(c) 
a list of factors used to select an execution venue execution 
venue, including qualitative factors such as clearing schemes, 
circuit breakers, scheduled actions, or any other relevant 
consideration, and the relative importance of each factor;. 
The information about the factors used to select an execution 
venue execution venue for execution shall must be consistent 
with the controls used by the firm firm to demonstrate to 
clients clients that best execution has been achieved in on a 
consistent basis when reviewing the adequacy of its policy 
and arrangements; 
(d) 
how the execution factors execution factors of price costs, 
speed, likelihood of execution and any other relevant factors 
Page 145 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
are considered as part of all sufficient steps to obtain the best 
possible result for the client client; 
(e) 
where applicable, information that the firm firm executes 
orders outside a trading venue trading venue, the 
consequences, for example counterparty risk arising from 
execution outside a trading venue, and upon client client 
request, additional information about the consequences of this 
means of execution; 
(f) 
a clear and prominent warning that any specific instruction 
from a client client may prevent the firm firm from taking the 
steps that it has designed and implemented in its execution 
policy to obtain the best possible result for the execution of 
those orders in respect of the elements covered by those 
instructions; 
(g) 
a summary of the selection process for execution venues 
execution venues, execution strategies employed, the 
procedures and process used to analyse the quality of 
execution obtained and how the firms firms monitor and 
verify that the best possible results were obtained for clients 
clients. 
That information shall be provided in a durable medium, or by means 
of a website (where that does not constitute a durable medium) 
provided that the conditions specified in Article 3(2) are satisfied. 
(4) 
Where investment firms apply a firm applies different fees depending 
on the execution venue execution venue, the firm shall firm must 
explain these differences in sufficient detail in order to allow the 
client client to understand the advantages and the disadvantages of the 
choice of a single execution venue execution venue. 
(5) 
Where investment firms invite clients a firm invites clients to choose 
an execution venue execution venue, fair, clear and not misleading 
information shall must be provided to prevent the client client from 
choosing one execution venue execution venue rather than another on 
the sole basis of the price policy applied by the firm firm. 
(6) 
Investment firms shall A firm must only receive third-party payments 
that comply with [COBS 2.3A.5R, COBS 2.3A.6R and COBS 
2.3A.7E] the rules in COBS 2.3A and shall must inform clients clients 
about the inducements that the firm firm may receive from the 
execution venues execution venues. The information shall must 
specify the fees charged by the investment firm firm to all 
counterparties involved in the transaction, and where the fees vary 
depending on the client client, the information shall must indicate the 
maximum fees or range of the fees that may be payable. 
Page 146 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(7) 
Where an investment firm a firm charges more than one participant in 
a transaction, in compliance with [COBS 2.3A.5R, COBS 2.3A.6R 
and COBS 2.3A.7E] the rules in COBS 2.3A, the firm shall firm must 
inform its client client of the value of any monetary or non-monetary 
benefits received by the firm firm. 
(8) 
Where a client client makes reasonable and proportionate requests for 
information about its policies or arrangements and how they are 
reviewed to an investment firm a firm, that investment firm shall firm 
must answer clearly and within a reasonable time. 
(9) 
Where an investment firm a firm executes orders for retail clients 
retail clients, it shall must provide those clients clients with a 
summary of the relevant policy, focused on the total cost they incur. 
11.2A.2 
6 
G 
… 
[Note: recital 99 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
11.2A.2 
7 
G 
… 
[Note: recital 99 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
11.2A.2 
9 
G 
… 
[Note: recital 108 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
11.2A.3 
0 
G 
… 
[Note: recital 105 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
11.2A.3 
3 
G 
… 
[Note: recital 107 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
Duty of portfolio managers, receivers and transmitters to act in client’s best 
interest 
11.2A.3 
4 
UK 
R 
(1) 
65 (1) Investment firms, when providing portfolio management, shall 
comply with the obligation [COBS 2.1.1R] to act in accordance with 
the best interests of their clients A firm that provides portfolio 
management services must comply with the client’s best interests rule 
when placing orders with other entities persons for execution that 
Page 147 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
result from decisions by the investment firm firm to deal in financial 
instruments financial instruments on behalf of its client client. 
(2) 
Investment firms, when providing A firm that provides the service of 
reception and transmission of orders, shall must comply with the 
obligation under [COBS 2.1.1R] to act in accordance with the best 
interests of their clients the client’s best interests rule when 
transmitting client client orders to other entities persons for 
execution. 
(3) 
In order to comply with the client’s best interests rule in the way 
described in paragraphs 1 or 2 (1) or (2), investment firms shall a firm 
must comply with paragraphs 4 to 7 of this Article and Article 64(4) 
(4) to (8). 
(4) 
Investment firms shall A firm must take all sufficient steps to obtain 
the best possible result for their clients its client, taking into account 
the factors referred to in Article 27(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU. The 
execution factors, the relative importance of these factors shall which 
must be determined by reference: 
(a) 
to the criteria set out in Article 64(1) execution criteria; and, 
(b) 
for retail clients retail clients, to the requirement under 
Article 27(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU COBS 11.2A.9R. 
An investment firm A firm satisfies its obligations under paragraph 1 
or 2 (1) or (2), and is not required to take the steps mentioned in this 
paragraph, to the extent that it follows specific instructions from its 
client client when placing an order with, or transmitting an order to, 
another entity for execution. 
(5) 
Investment firms shall A firm must establish and implement a policy 
that enables them it to comply with the obligation in paragraph 4 (4). 
The policy shall must identify, in respect of each class of instruments, 
the entities persons with which the orders are placed or to which the 
investment firm firm transmits orders for execution. The entities 
persons identified shall must have execution arrangements that enable 
the investment firm firm to comply with its obligations under this 
Article rule when it places or transmits orders to that entity person for 
execution. 
(6) 
Investment firms shall A firm must provide information to their its 
clients clients on the policy in (5) and its execution policy established 
in accordance with paragraph 5 and paragraphs 2 to 9 of Article 66 
COBS 11.2A.25R(2) to (9). Investment firms shall The firm must 
provide clients clients with appropriate information about the firm 
firm and its services and the entities persons chosen for execution. 
Upon reasonable request from a client client, investment firms shall a 
firm must provide its clients clients or potential clients clients with 
Page 148 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
information about entities where the orders are transmitted or placed 
for execution. 
(7) 
Investment firms shall A firm must: 
(a) 
monitor on a regular basis the effectiveness of the its policy 
established in accordance with paragraph 5 (5) and, in 
particular, shall monitor the execution quality of the entities 
identified in that policy and, where appropriate, correct any 
deficiencies.; 
(b) 
Investment firms shall review the policy its order execution 
policy and order execution arrangements at least annually. 
Such a review shall also be carried out and whenever a 
material change material change occurs that affects the firm’s 
firm’s ability to continue to obtain the best possible result for 
their clients. its clients; 
(c) 
Investment firms shall assess whether a material change 
material change has occurred and shall must consider making 
changes to the execution venues execution venues or entities 
persons on which they place it places significant reliance in 
meeting the overarching best execution requirement its 
MiFID best execution obligation. 
A material change shall be a significant event that could 
impact parameters of best execution such as cost, price, 
speed, likelihood of execution and settlement, size, nature or 
any other consideration relevant to the execution of the order. 
(8) 
This Article shall not apply where the investment firm that provides 
the service of portfolio management or reception and transmission of 
orders also executes the orders received or the decisions to deal on 
behalf of its client’s portfolio. In those cases, Articles 64 and 66 of 
this Regulation, and rules in [COBS] which were relied on 
immediately before exit to implement Article 27 of Directive 
2014/65/EU shall apply. When executing client orders or taking 
decisions to deal in OTC products, including bespoke products, the 
firm must check the fairness of the price proposed to the client by 
gathering market data used in the estimation of the price of such 
product and, where possible, by comparing with similar or 
comparable products. 
11.2A.3 
5 
G 
… 
[Note: recital 106 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
11.2A.3 
6 
G 
… 
Page 149 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
[Note: recital 100 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
11.3 
Client order handling 
General principles 
… 
11.3.1A 
R 
(1) 
Subject to (2) and (3), in this chapter provisions marked “UK” apply 
to a firm’s business other than MiFID business as if they were rules. 
[deleted] 
(2) 
Provisions which derive from recitals to MiFID or the MiFID Org 
Regulation apply to all firms as guidance. [deleted] 
(3) 
COBS 11.3.4AUK, which reproduces article 67(2) of the MiFID Org 
Regulation, COBS 11.3.4AR does not apply to a UCITS management 
company. 
Carrying out client orders 
11.3.2A 
UK 
67 (1) Investment firms shall satisfy the following conditions A firm must, 
R 
when carrying out client client orders: 
(a) 
ensure that orders executed on behalf of clients clients are promptly 
(1) 
and accurately recorded and allocated; 
(b) 
carry out otherwise comparable client client orders sequentially and 
(2) 
promptly unless the characteristics of the order or prevailing market 
conditions make this impracticable, or the interests of the client client 
require otherwise; 
(c) 
inform a retail client retail client about any material difficulty 
(3) 
relevant to the proper carrying out of orders promptly upon becoming 
aware of the difficulty. 
11.3.3 
G 
… 
[Note: recital 110 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
Settlement of executed orders 
11.3.4A 
UK 
67 (2) Where an investment firm a firm is responsible for overseeing or 
R 
arranging the settlement of an executed order, it shall must take all 
reasonable steps to ensure that any client financial instruments client 
financial instruments or client funds client money received in settlement of 
Page 150 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
that executed order are promptly and correctly delivered to the account of 
the appropriate client client. 
Use of information relating to pending client orders 
11.3.5A 
UK 
67 (3) An investment firm shall A firm must not misuse information 
R 
relating to pending client client orders, and shall must take all reasonable 
steps to prevent the misuse of such information by any of its relevant 
persons relevant persons. 
11.3.6 
G 
Without prejudice to the Market Abuse Regulation, for the purposes of the 
provision on the misuse of information (see COBS 11.3.5AEU COBS 
11.3.5AR), any use by a firm of information relating to a pending client 
order in order to deal on own account in the financial instruments to which 
the client order relates, or in related financial instruments, should be 
considered a misuse of that information. However, the mere fact that 
market makers or bodies authorised to act as counterparties confine 
themselves to pursuing their legitimate business of buying and selling 
financial instruments, or that persons authorised to execute orders on behalf 
of third parties confine themselves to carrying out an order dutifully, should 
not in itself be deemed to constitute a misuse of information. 
[Note: recital 110 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
Aggregation and allocation of orders 
11.3.7A 
UK 
68 (1) Investment firms shall A firm must not carry out a client client order 
R 
or a transaction for own account in aggregation with another client client 
order unless the following conditions are met: 
(a) 
it is unlikely that the aggregation of orders and transactions will work 
(1) 
overall to the disadvantage of any client client whose orders is are to 
be aggregated; 
(b) 
it is disclosed to each client client whose order is to be aggregated 
(2) 
that the effect of aggregation may work to its disadvantage in relation 
to a particular order; and 
(c) 
the firm has established and effectively implemented an order 
(3) 
allocation policy is established and effectively implemented, 
providing which provides for the fair allocation of aggregated orders 
and transactions, including how the volume and price of orders 
determines allocations and the treatment of partial executions. 
11.3.7B 
R 
A management company must ensure that the order allocation policy 
referred to in article 68(1)(c) of the MiFID Org Regulation, reproduced at 
COBS 11.3.7AUK, COBS 11.3.7AR(3) is in sufficiently precise terms. 
[Note: article 28(1) of the UCITS implementing Directive] 
Page 151 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
Partial execution of aggregated client orders 
11.3.8A 
UK 
68 (2) Where an investment firm a firm aggregates an order with one or 
R 
more other client client orders and the aggregated order is partially 
executed, it shall must allocate the related trades in accordance with its 
order allocation policy. 
Aggregation and allocation of transactions for own account 
11.3.9A 
UK 
69 (1) Investment firms A firm which have has aggregated transactions for 
R 
own account with one or more client client orders shall must not allocate 
the related trades in a way that is detrimental to a client client. 
11.3.10 
UK 
(1) 
69 (2) Where an investment firm a firm aggregates a client client 
A 
R 
order with a transaction for own account and the aggregated order is 
partially executed, it shall must allocate the related trades to the client 
client in priority to the firm firm. 
(2) 
Where an investment firm a firm aggregates a client client order with 
a transaction for own account and the aggregated order is partially 
executed, it shall must allocate the related trades to the client client in 
priority to the firm firm. Where an investment firm the firm is able to 
demonstrate on reasonable grounds that without the combination it 
would not have been able to carry out the order on such advantageous 
terms, or at all, it may allocate the transaction for own account 
proportionally, in accordance with its order allocation policy referred 
to in Article 68(1)(c) COBS 11.3.7AR(3). 
11.3.11 
UK 
69 (3) As part of the order allocation policy referred to in Article 68(1)(c) 
A
R 
COBS 11.3.7AR(3), investment firms shall a firm must put in place 
procedures designed to prevent the reallocation, in a way that is detrimental 
to the client client, of transactions for own account which are executed in 
combination with client client orders. 
11.3.12 
G 
… 
[Note: recital 109 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
Transposition of client order handling provisions in the UCITS Implementing 
Directive 
11.3.14 
G 
(1) 
This section applies to a UCITS management company as a result of 
COBS 18.5B.2R. 
(2) 
The provisions of the MiFID Org Regulation reproduced in this 
section apply to a UCITS management company as a result of COBS 
11.3.1AR. [deleted] 
Page 152 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(3) 
Some of these the provisions in this chapter were used to transpose 
provisions of the UCITS implementing Directive, as set out in the 
table below: 
… 
MiFID Org 
Regulation 
Provision 
COBS 11.3 provision 
UCITS implementing 
Directive transposition 
article 67(1) 
COBS 11.3.2AUK COBS 
11.3.2AR 
article 27(1) second 
paragraph 
article 67(3) 
COBS 11.3.5AUK COBS 
11.3.5AR 
article 27(2) 
article 68(1) 
COBS 11.3.7AUK COBS 
11.3.7AR, as modified by 
COBS 11.3.7BR 
article 28(1) 
article 68(2) 
COBS 11.3.8AUK COBS 
11.3.8AR 
article 28(2) 
article 69(1) 
COBS 11.3.9AUK COBS 
11.3.9AR 
article 28(3) 
article 69(2) 
COBS 11.3.10AUK COBS 
11.3.10AR 
article 28(4) 
11.3.15 
R 
A firm subject to COBS 11.3.2AR to COBS 11.3.13G must retain the 
records it is required to make under those rules. 
11.4 
Client limit orders 
Obligation to make unexecuted client limit orders public 
11.4.-1 
R 
In this chapter provisions marked “UK” apply to a firm’s business other 
than MiFID business as if they were rules. [deleted] 
… 
How client limit orders may be made public 
11.4.3A 
UK 
A client client limit order in respect of shares shares admitted to 
trading on a regulated market or traded on a trading venue which 
R 
have not been immediately executed under prevailing market 
condition conditions as referred to in COBS 11.4.1R shall be is 
considered available to the public when the investment firm has 
Page 153 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
submitted the order for execution to a regulated market or a MTF 
or the order has been published by a person person authorised to 
provide data reporting services data reporting services under the 
DRS Regulations and can be easily executed as soon as market 
conditions allow. 
… 
11.5A 
Record keeping: client orders and transactions 
11.5A.1 
R 
(1) 
Subject to (2), in this chapter provisions marked “UK” apply to a 
firm’s business other than MiFID business as if they were rules. 
[deleted] 
(2) 
Provisions in this chapter which are marked “UK” do This section 
does not apply to corporate finance business carried on by a firm 
which is not a MiFID investment firm. 
Recording initial orders received from clients 
11.5A.2 
UK 
(1) 
74 An investment firm shall A firm must, in relation to every initial 
R 
order received from a client client and in relation to every initial 
decision to deal taken, immediately record and keep at the disposal 
of the competent authority FCA at least the details set out in 
Section 1 of Annex IV [reproduced below at COBS 11.5A.4UK] to 
this Regulation COBS 11.5A.4R to the extent they are applicable 
to the order or decision to deal in question. 
(2) 
Where the details set out in Section 1 of Annex IV to this 
Regulation COBS 11.5A.4R are also prescribed in requirements 
imposed by or under Articles 25 and 26 of Regulation No (EU) 
600/2014, these details should be maintained in a consistent way 
and according to the same standards prescribed in requirements 
imposed by or under Articles 25 and 26 of Regulation No (EU) 
600/2014. 
Record keeping in relation to transactions and order processing 
11.5A.3 
UK 
(1) 
75 Investment firms shall A firm must, immediately after receiving 
a client order or making a decision to deal to the extent they are 
R 
applicable to the order or decision to deal in question, record and 
keep at the disposal of the competent authority FCA at least the 
details set out in Section 2 of Annex IV [reproduced below at 
COBS 11.5A.5UK] COBS 11.5A.5R. 
(2) 
Where the details set out in Section 2 of Annex IV COBS 
11.5A.5R are also prescribed in requirements imposed by or under 
Articles 25 and 26 of Regulation No (EU) 600/2014, they shall 
Page 154 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
must be maintained in a consistent way and according to the same 
standards prescribed in requirements imposed by or under Articles 
25 and 26 of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014. 
Minimum details to be recorded in relation to client orders and decisions to deal 
11.5A.4 
UK 
Annex IV Section 1 of the MiFID Org Regulation makes provision for 
R 
record keeping of client orders and decisions to deal. The minimum 
details to be recorded in accordance with COBS 11.5A.2R are as follows: 
1. 
Name and designation of the client client 
2. 
Name and designation of any relevant person relevant person acting on 
behalf of the client client 
3. 
A designation to identify the trader (Trader ID) responsible within the 
investment firm firm for the investment decision 
4. 
A designation to identify the algorithm (Algo ID) responsible within the 
investment firm firm for the investment decision; 
… 
15. 
Any other details, conditions and particular instructions from the client 
client 
16. 
The date and exact time of the receipt of the order or the date and exact 
time of when the decision to deal was made. The exact time must be 
measured according to the methodology prescribed in Commission 
Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/574 of 7 June 2016 supplementing 
Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council with 
regard to regulatory technical standards for the level of accuracy of 
business clocks or technical standards made by the Financial Conduct 
Authority under paragraph 33 of Schedule 1 MiFID RTS 25. 
Minimum details to be recorded in relation to transactions and order 
processing 
11.5A.5 
UK 
The minimum details to be recorded in accordance with COBS 11.5A.3R 
R 
are as follows: 
1. 
Name and designation of the client client 
2. 
Name and designation of any relevant person relevant person acting on 
behalf of the client client 
3. 
A designation to identify the trader (Trader ID) responsible within the 
investment firm firm for the investment decision 
Page 155 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
4. 
A designation to identify the Algo (Ago ID) responsible within the 
investment firm firm for the investment decision 
… 
8. 
A unique identification for each group of aggregated clients’ clients’ 
orders (which will be subsequently placed as one block order on a given 
trading venue). This identification should indicated indicate 
“aggregated_X” with X representing the number of clients clients whose 
orders have been aggregated 
… 
10. 
The name and other designation of the person person to whom the order 
was transmitted 
… 
32. 
The date and exact time of submission of the order or decision to deal. 
The exact time must be measured according to the methodology 
prescribed in Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/574 of 7 June 
2016 supplementing Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament 
and of the Council with regard to regulatory technical standards for the 
level of accuracy of business clocks or in technical standards made by the 
Financial Conduct Authority under paragraph 26 of Schedule 3 MiFID 
RTS 25. 
33. 
The date and exact time of any message that is transmitted to and received 
from the trading venue in relation to any events affecting an order. The 
exact time must be measured according to the methodology prescribed 
under the RTS MiFID RTS 25 on clock synchronisation. 
34. 
The date and exact time any message that is transmitted to and received 
from another investment firm in relation to events affecting an order. The 
exact time must be measured according to the methodology prescribed in 
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/574 of 7 June 2016 
supplementing Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of 
the Council with regard to regulatory technical standards for the level of 
accuracy of business clocks or in technical standards made by the 
Financial Conduct Authority under paragraph 26 of Schedule 3 MiFID 
RTS 25. 
35. 
Any message that is transmitted to and received from the trading venue in 
relation to orders placed by the investment firm firm 
36. 
Any other details and conditions that was submitted to and received from 
another investment firm firm in relation with the order 
Page 156 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
… 
… 
11.7 
Personal account dealing 
… 
Rule on personal account dealing 
… 
11.7.2 
R 
For the purposes of this section, the relevant provisions are: 
(1) 
the rules article 37(2)(a) and (b) of the MiFID Org Regulation on 
personal transactions undertaken by financial analysts copied out 
in COBS 12.2.21EU which apply as rules as a result of COBS 
12.2.15R COBS 12.2.21R(1)(a) and (b); and 
(2) 
article 67(3) of the MiFID Org Regulation on the misuse of 
information relating to pending client orders copied out in COBS 
11.3.5AEU which applies as a rule as a result of COBS 11.3.1AR 
COBS 11.3.5AR. 
… 
11.7A 
Personal account dealing relating to MiFID, equivalent third country or 
optional exemption business 
Application 
… 
11.7A.2 
R 
(1) 
Subject to (2), in this chapter provisions marked “UK” apply to a 
firm in relation to its equivalent third country or optional 
exemption business as if they were rules. [deleted] 
(2) 
In this chapter section, provisions which derive from recitals to 
MiFID or the MiFID Org Regulation apply to a firm in relation to 
its business which is the equivalent business of a third country 
investment firm or MiFID optional exemption business as 
guidance. [deleted] 
(3) 
The requirements in COBS 11.7A.5R do not apply in respect of the 
following personal transactions: 
(a) 
personal transactions effected under a discretionary 
portfolio management service where there is no prior 
communication in connection with the transaction between 
Page 157 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
the portfolio manager and the relevant person or other 
person for whose account the transaction is executed; 
(b) 
personal transactions in units or shares, in UCITS or AIFs 
that are subject to supervision under the law of the UK 
which requires an equivalent level of risk spreading in their 
assets, where the relevant person and any other person for 
whose account the transactions are effected are not 
involved in the management of that undertaking. 
… 
Scope of personal transactions 
11.7A.4 
UK 
28 For the purposes of Article 29 and Article 37, a personal transaction 
shall be a trade in a financial instrument effected by or on behalf of a 
relevant person, where at least one of the following criteria are met: 
(a) 
the relevant person is acting outside the scope of the activities he 
carries out in this professional capacity; 
(b) 
the trade is carried out for the account of any of the following 
persons: 
(i) 
the relevant person; 
(ii) 
any person with who he has a family relationship, or with 
whom he has close links; 
(iii) 
a person in respect of whom the relevant person has a direct 
or indirect material interest in the outcome of the trade, 
other than obtaining a fee or commission for the execution 
of the trade. [deleted] 
Requirements relating to personal transactions 
11.7A.5 
UK 
(1) 
29 (1) Investment firms shall ensure that relevant persons do A 
R 
firm must establish, implement and maintain adequate 
arrangements aimed at preventing the activities set out in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 (2) to (4) in the case respect of any relevant 
person of its relevant persons who is are involved in activities that 
may give rise to a conflict of interest, or who has have access to 
inside information within the meaning of Article 7(1) of 
Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 inside information or to other 
confidential information relating to clients clients or transactions 
with, of or for, clients clients, by virtue of an activity carried out 
by him them on behalf of the firm firm. 
Page 158 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(2) 
Investment firms shall A firm must ensure that relevant persons 
relevant persons do not enter into a personal transaction personal 
transaction which meets at least one of the following criteria: 
(a) 
that person is prohibited from entering into it under 
Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 the Market Abuse 
Regulation; 
(b) 
it involves the misuse or improper disclosure of that 
confidential information; 
(c) 
it conflicts or is likely to conflict with an obligation of the 
investment firm firm under UK law on markets in financial 
instruments. 
(3) 
Investment firms shall A firm must ensure that relevant persons 
relevant persons do not advise or recommend, other than in the 
proper course of employment or contract for services, any other 
person person to enter into a transaction in financial instruments 
financial instruments which, if it were a personal transaction 
personal transaction of the relevant person relevant person, would 
be covered by paragraph 2 or Article 37(2)(a) or (b) or Article 
67(3) COBS 12.2.21R(1)(a) or (b), COBS 11.3.5AR or COBS 
11.7A.5R(2); 
(4) 
Without prejudice Subject to Article 10 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 
596/2014 the Market Abuse Regulation, investment firms shall a 
firm must ensure that relevant persons relevant persons do not 
disclose, other than in the normal course of his their employment 
or contract for services, any information or opinion to any other 
person person where the relevant person relevant person knows, or 
reasonably ought to know, that as a result of that disclosure that 
other person person will or would be likely to take either of the 
following steps: 
(a) 
to enter into a transaction in financial instruments financial 
instrument which, if it were a personal transaction personal 
transaction of the relevant person relevant person, would 
be covered by paragraphs 2 or 3 or Article 37(2)(a) or (b) or 
Article 67(3) COBS 12.2.21R(1)(a) or (b), COBS 11.3.5AR 
or COBS 11.7A.5R(2); 
(b) 
to advise or procure another person person to enter into 
such a transaction. 
(5) 
The Firms must design the arrangements required under paragraph 
1 shall be designed (1) in such a way to ensure that: 
Page 159 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(a) 
each relevant person relevant person covered by paragraphs 
1, 2, 3 and 4 this rule is aware of the restrictions on 
personal transactions personal transactions, and of the 
measures established by the investment firm firm in 
connection with personal transactions personal transactions 
and disclosure, in accordance with paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 
under this rule; 
(b) 
the firm firm is informed promptly of any personal 
transaction personal transaction entered into by a relevant 
person relevant person, either by notification of that 
transaction or by other procedures enabling the firm firm to 
identify such transactions; 
(c) 
a record is kept of the personal transaction personal 
transaction notified to the firm of firm or identified by it, 
including any authorisation or prohibition in connection 
with such a transaction. 
(5A) In the case of outsourcing arrangements, the investment firm shall 
firm must ensure that the firm third party to which the activity is 
outsourced maintains a record of personal transactions personal 
transactions entered into by any relevant person relevant person 
and provides that information to the investment firm firm promptly 
on request. 
(6) 
Paragraphs 1 to 5 shall not apply to the following personal 
transactions: 
(a) 
personal transactions effected under a discretionary 
portfolio management service where there is no prior 
communication in connection with the transaction between 
the portfolio manager and the relevant person or other 
person for whose account the transaction is executed; 
(b) 
personal transactions in undertakings for collective 
investments in transferable securities (UCITS) or AIFs that 
are subject to supervision under the law of the United 
Kingdom which requires an equivalent level of risk 
spreading in their assets, where the relevant person and any 
other person for whose account the transactions are effected 
are not involved in the management of that undertaking. 
[deleted] 
11.7A.6 
R 
… 
[Note: recital 42 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
Page 160 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
… 
11A 
Underwriting and placing 
11A.1 
Underwriting and placing 
General application 
11A.1.1 
R 
… 
(2) 
Subject to (3), in this chapter provisions marked “UK” apply to the 
equivalent business of a third country investment as if they were 
rules. [deleted] 
(3) 
In this chapter, provisions which derive from recitals to MiFID or 
the MiFID Org Regulation apply to the equivalent business of a 
third country investment firm as guidance. 
Requirements to provide specific information to issuer clients 
11A.1.2 
UK 38 (1) Investment firms Firms which provide advice on corporate finance 
strategy, as set out in Paragraph 3 of Part 3A of Schedule 2 to the 
R 
Regulated Activities Order Regulated Activities Order, and provide the 
service of underwriting or placing of financial instruments, shall financial 
instruments must, before accepting a mandate to manage the offering, have 
arrangements in place to inform the issuer client issuer client of the 
following: 
(a) 
the various financing alternatives available with the firm firm, and 
(1) 
an indication of the amount of transaction fees associated with 
each alternative; 
(b) 
the timing and the process with regard to the corporate finance 
(2) 
advice on pricing of the offer 
(c) 
the timing and the process with regard to the corporate finance 
(3) 
advice on placing of the offering; 
(d) 
details of the targeted investors, to whom the firm firm intends to 
(4) 
offer the financial instruments financial instruments; 
(e) 
the job titles and departments of the relevant individuals involved 
(5) 
in the provision of corporate finance advice on the price and 
allotment of financial instruments financial instruments; and 
(f) (6) firm’s the firm’s arrangements to prevent or manage conflicts of 
interest that may arise where the firm firm places the relevant 
financial instruments financial instruments with its investment 
clients of clients or with its own proprietary book. 
Page 161 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11A.1.3 
11A.1.4 
… 
11A.1.5 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
Requirements to identify underwriting and placing operations and to ensure that 
adequate controls are in place to manage conflicts of interest 
UK (1) 
38 (2) Investment firms shall Firms must have in place a 
R 
centralised process to identify all underwriting and placing 
operations of the firm firm and record such information, including 
the date on which the firm firm was informed of potential 
underwriting and placing operations. Firms shall Firms must 
identify all potential conflicts of interest arising from other 
activities of the investment firm firm, or group group, and 
implement appropriate management procedures. In cases where an 
investment firm a firm cannot manage a conflict of interest by way 
of implementing appropriate procedures, the investment firm shall 
firm must not engage in the operation. 
(3) 
Investment firms Firms providing execution and research services 
(2) 
as well as carrying out underwriting and placing activities shall 
must ensure adequate controls are in place to manage any potential 
conflicts of interest between these activities and between their 
different clients clients receiving those services. 
Additional requirements: in relation to pricings of offerings in relation to the 
issuance of financial instruments 
UK 39 (1) Investment firms shall Firms must have in place systems, controls 
and procedures to identify and prevent or manage conflicts of interest that 
R 
arise in relation to possible under-pricing or over-pricing of an issue or 
involvement of relevant parties in the process. In particular, investment 
firms shall firms must as a minimum requirement establish, implement and 
maintain internal arrangements to ensure both of the following: 
(a) 
that the pricing of the offer does not promote the interests of other 
(1) 
clients clients or firm’s firm’s own interests, in a way that may 
conflict with the issuer client’s issuer client’s interests; and 
(b) 
the prevention or management of a situation where persons 
(2) 
responsible for providing services to the firm’s firm’s investment 
clients clients are directly involved in decisions about corporate 
finance advice on pricing to the issuer client issuer client. 
Further requirements concerning the provision of information 
UK 39 (2) Investment firms shall Firms must provide clients clients with 
R 
information about how the recommendation as to the price of the offering 
and the timings involved is determined. In particular, the firm shall firm 
must inform and engage with the issuer client issuer client about any 
hedging or stabilisation strategies it intends to undertake with respect to the 
offering, including how these strategies may impact the issuer client’s 
issuer client’s interests. During the offering process, firms shall firms must 
Page 162 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
also take all reasonable steps to keep the issuer client issuer client informed 
about developments with respect to the pricing of the issue. 
11A.1.6 
UK 
R 
(1) 
40 (1) Investment firms Firms placing financial instruments shall 
financial instruments must establish, implement and maintain 
effective arrangements to prevent recommendations on placing 
from being inappropriately influenced by any existing or future 
relationships. 
(2) 
Investment firms shall Firms must establish, implement and 
maintain effective internal arrangements to prevent or manage 
conflicts of interests that arise where persons responsible for 
providing services to the firm’s firm’s investment clients clients 
are directly involved in decisions about recommendations to the 
issuer client issuer client on allocation. 
(3) 
Investment firms shall Firms must not accept any third-party 
payments or benefits unless such payments or benefits comply 
with rules made by the Financial Conduct Authority under the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 which were relied on 
before IP completion day to implement requirements laid down in 
Article 24 of Directive 2014/65/EU relevant applicable 
requirements in COBS 2.3A and COBS 6.2B.11R. In particular, the 
following practices shall will be considered not compliant with 
those requirements and shall will therefore be considered not 
acceptable: 
(a) 
an allocation made to incentivise the payment of 
disproportionately high fees for unrelated services provided 
by the investment firm firm (‘laddering’), such as 
disproportionately high fees or commissions paid by an 
investment client client, or disproportionately high volumes 
of business at normal levels of commission provided by the 
investment client client, as a compensation for receiving an 
allocation of the issue; 
(b) 
an allocation made to a senior executive or a corporate 
officer of an existing or potential issuer client issuer client, 
in consideration for the future or past award of corporate 
finance business (‘spinning’); and 
(c) 
an allocation that is expressly or implicitly conditional on 
the receipt of future orders or the purchase of any other 
service from the investment firm firm by an investment 
client client, or any entity of which the investor is a 
corporate officer. 
(4) 
Investment firms shall A firm must establish, implement and 
maintain an allocation policy that sets out the process for 
developing allocation recommendations. The allocation policy 
shall must be provided to the issuer client issuer client before 
Page 163 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11A.1.7 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
agreeing to undertake any placing services. The policy shall must 
set out relevant information that is available at that stage, about the 
proposed allocation methodology for the issue. 
(5) 
Investment firms shall A firm must involve the issuer client issuer 
client in discussions about the placing process in order for the firm 
firm to be able to understand and take into account the client’s 
client’s interests and objectives. The investment firm shall firm 
must obtain the issuer client’s issuer client’s agreement to its 
proposed allocation per type of client client for the transaction in 
accordance with the allocation policy. 
UK 
R 
(1) 
41 (1) Investment firms shall Firms must have in place systems, 
controls and procedures to identify and manage the conflicts of 
interest that arise when providing investment services investment 
services to an investment client client to participate in a new issue, 
where the investment firm firm receives commissions, fees or any 
monetary or non-monetary benefits in relation to arranging the 
issuance. Any commissions, fees or monetary or non-monetary 
benefits shall must comply with the relevant applicable 
requirements in [COBS 2.3A.5R to COBS 2.3A.7E, COBS 
2.3A.15R, COBS 2.3A.16R, COBS 2.3A.19R COBS 2.3A and 
COBS 6.2B.11R] and be documented in the investment firm’s 
firm’s conflicts of interest policies and reflected in the firm’s 
firm’s inducements arrangements. 
(2) 
Investment firms Firms engaging in the placement of financial 
instruments financial instruments issued by themselves or by 
entities within the same group group, to their own clients clients, 
including their existing depositor clients in the case of credit 
institutions, or investment funds managed by entities of their group 
group, shall must establish, implement and maintain clear and 
effective arrangements for the identification, prevention or 
management of the potential conflicts of interest that arise in 
relation to this type of activity. Such arrangements shall must 
include consideration of refraining from engaging in the activity, 
where conflicts of interest cannot be appropriately managed so as 
to prevent any adverse effects on clients clients. 
(3) 
When disclosure of conflicts of interest is required, investment 
firms firms shall must comply with the requirements in Article 
34(4) SYSC 10.1.812ER, including an explanation of the nature 
and source of the conflicts of interest inherent to this type of 
activity, providing details about the specific risks related to such 
practices in order to enable clients clients to make an informed 
investment decision. 
(4) 
Investment firms Firms which offer financial instruments issued 
financial instruments that are issued by themselves or other group 
group entities to their clients clients and that are included in the 
Page 164 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
calculation of prudential requirements specified in Regulation 
(EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council¹, 
the law of the United Kingdom or any part of the United Kingdom 
(“UK law”) which was relied on before IP completion day to 
implement the Prudential sourcebook for MiFID Investment Firms 
(MIFIDPRU), the UK CRR, Directive 2013/36/EU of the European 
Parliament and of the Council² or Directive 2014/59/EU of the 
European Parliament and of the Council³ or the PRA and FCA 
rules implementing the RRD, shall must provide those clients 
clients with additional information explaining the differences 
between the financial instrument financial instrument and bank 
deposits in terms of yield, risk, liquidity and any protection 
provided in accordance with UK law which was relied on before IP 
completion day to implement Directive 2014/49/EU of the 
European Parliament and of the Council the PRA rules 
implementing the DGSD. 
¹ Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of 
the Council of 26 June 2013 on prudential requirements for credit 
institutions and investment firms and amending Regulation (EU) 
No 648/2012 (OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p.l) 
² Directive 2013/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the 
Council of 26 June 2013 on access to the activity of credit 
institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions and 
investment firms, amending Directive 2002/87/EC and repealing 
Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC (OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, 
p.338) 
³ Directive 2014/59/EU of the European Parliament and of the 
Council of 15 May 2014 establishing a framework for the recovery 
and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms and 
amending Council Directive 82/891/EEC, and Directives 
2001/24/EC, 2002/47/EC, 2004/25/EC, 2005/56/EC, 2007/36/EC, 
2011/35/EU, 2012/30/EU and 2013/36/EU, and Regulation (EU) 
No 1093/2010 and (EU) No 648/2012, of the European Parliament 
and of the Council (OJ L 173, 12.6.201, p190) 
Further requirements in relation to lending on provision of credit in the context of 
underwriting or placement 
11A.1.8 
UK (1) 
42 (1) Where any previous lending or credit to the issuer client 
R 
issuer client by an investment firm a firm, or an entity within the 
same group group, may be repaid with the proceeds of an issue, 
the investment firm shall firm must have arrangements in place to 
identify and prevent or manage any conflicts of interest that may 
arise as a result. 
Page 165 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(2) 
Where the arrangements taken to manage conflicts of interest 
prove insufficient to ensure that the risk of damage to the issuer 
client issuer client would be prevented, investment firms shall 
firms must disclose to the issuer client issuer client the specific 
conflicts of interest that have arisen in relation to their, or group 
group entities’, activities in a capacity of credit provider, and their 
activities related to the securities offering. 
(3) 
Investment firms’ Firms’ conflict of interest policy shall must 
require the sharing of information about the issuer’s issuer’s 
financial situation with group group entities acting as credit 
providers, provided this would not breach information barriers set 
up by the firm firm to protect the interests of a client client. 
Record keeping requirements in relation to underwriting or placing 
11A.1.9 
UK Investment firms shall Firms must keep records of the content and timing 
R 
of instructions received from clients clients. A record of the allocation 
decisions taken for each operation shall must be kept to provide for a 
complete audit trail between the movements registered in clients’ clients’ 
accounts and the instructions received by the investment firm firm. In 
particular, the final allocation made to each investment client shall client 
must be clearly justified and recorded. The complete audit trail of the 
material steps in the underwriting and placing process shall must be made 
available to competent authorities the FCA upon request. 
… 
12 
Investment research 
… 
12.2 
Investment research and non-independent research 
Application 
12.2.14 
G 
This section applies to a firm that: 
R 
(1) 
produces, or arranges for the production of, investment research 
that is intended or likely to be subsequently disseminated to clients 
of the firm or to the public, under its own responsibility or that of a 
member of its group (see COBS 12.2.19R to COBS 12.2.21AG); or 
(2) 
produces or disseminates non-independent research (see COBS 
12.2.18R to COBS 12.2.18BG). 
12.2.14A G 
The concept of dissemination of investment research to clients or the public 
does not include dissemination exclusively to persons within the group of 
the firm. 
Page 166 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
12.2.15 
R 
Where this section applies to a firm in relation to business other than its 
MiFID business, provisions in this section marked “UK” shall apply as if 
they were rules, other than those that copy out recitals, which shall apply as 
if they were guidance. [deleted] 
12.2.16 
G 
(1) 
This section applies to both investment research and non­
independent research. 
(2) 
Non-independent research is not presented as objective or 
independent and is accordingly considered a marketing 
communication. 
(3) 
Both investment research and non-independent research are sub­
categories of the type of information defined as an investment 
recommendation in COBS 12.4. [deleted] 
Investment research and non-independent research 
12.2.17 
UK 36(1) For the purposes of Article 37 investment research shall be research 
or other information recommending or suggesting an investment strategy, 
explicitly or implicitly, concerning one or several financial instruments or 
the issuers of financial instruments, including any opinion as to the present 
or future value or price of such instruments, intended for distribution 
channels or for the public, and in relation to which the following conditions 
are met: 
(a) 
the research or information is labelled or described as investment 
research or in similar terms, or is otherwise presented as an 
objective or independent explanation of the matters contained in 
the recommendation; 
(b) 
if the recommendation in question were made by an investment 
firm to a client, it would not constitute the provision of investment 
advice for the purposes of UK law on markets in financial 
instruments. [deleted] 
Non-independent research with reference to investment recommendations as 
defined in the Market Abuse Regulation – identification 
12.2.18 
UK (1) 
36(2) A recommendation of the type covered by point (35) of 
R 
Article 3(1) of Regulation (EU) 596/2014 that does not meet the 
conditions set out in paragraph 1 shall be treated A firm which 
produces or disseminates non-independent research must: 
(a) 
treat it as a marketing communication for the purposes of 
UK law on markets in financial instruments and investment 
firms that produce or disseminate that recommendation 
shall and ensure that it is clearly identified as such.; 
Page 167 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(b) 
Additionally, firms shall ensure that any such 
recommendation the non-independent research contains a 
clear and prominent statement that (or, in the case of an oral 
recommendation, to the effect that) it has not been prepared 
in accordance with legal requirements designed to promote 
the independence of investment research investment 
research, and that it is not subject to any prohibition on 
dealing ahead of the dissemination of investment research 
investment research. 
Non-independent research – conflicts of interest 
12.2.18A R 
A firm which produces or disseminates non-independent research must 
implement the measures set out in SYSC 10.1.12DR(2), in relation to the 
relevant persons involved in the production of the non-independent 
research and other relevant persons whose responsibilities or business 
interests may conflict with the interests of the persons to whom such 
research is disseminated. 
12.2.18B 
G 
In relation to non-independent research, firms are reminded to consider 
their SYSC 10 obligations more generally and, in particular, whether 
conflicts arise in relation to: 
(1) 
relevant persons trading in financial instruments that are the 
subject of non-independent research which they know the firm has 
published or intends to publish before clients have had a 
reasonable opportunity to act on it (other than when the firm is 
acting as market maker in good faith and in the ordinary course of 
market making, or in the execution of an unsolicited client order); 
and 
(2) 
the preparation of non-independent research which is intended 
first for internal use by the firm and then for later publication to 
clients. 
Conflicts of interest Investment research – conflicts of interest 
12.2.19 
UK (1) 
37(1) Investment firms which produce, or arrange for the 
R 
production of, investment research that is intended or likely to be 
subsequently disseminated to clients of the firm or to the public, 
under their own responsibility or that of a member of their group, 
shall ensure the implementation of all the measures set out in 
Article 34(3) in relation to the financial analysts involved in the 
production of the investment research and other relevant persons 
whose responsibilities or business interests may conflict with the 
interests of the persons to whom the investment research is 
disseminated. 
Page 168 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
The obligations in the first subparagraph shall also apply in 
relation to recommendations referred to in Article 36(2). 
Recital 51 
The measures and arrangements adopted by an investment firm to 
manage the conflicts of interests that might arise from the 
production and dissemination of material that is presented as 
investment research should be appropriate to protect the objectivity 
and independence of financial analysts and of the investment 
research they produce. Those measures and arrangements should 
ensure that financial analysts enjoy an adequate degree of 
independence from the interests of persons whose responsibilities 
or business interests may reasonably be considered to conflict with 
the interests of the persons to whom the investment research is 
disseminated. 
Recital 52 
Persons whose responsibilities or business interests may 
reasonably be considered to conflict with the interests of the 
persons to whom investment research is disseminated should 
include corporate finance personnel and persons involved in sales 
and trading on behalf of clients or the firm. 
Recital 55 
The concept of dissemination of investment research to clients or 
the public should not include dissemination exclusively to persons 
within the group of the investment firm. Current recommendations 
should be considered to be those recommendations contained in 
investment research which have not been withdrawn and which 
have not lapsed. The substantial alteration of investment research 
produced by a third party should be governed by the same 
requirements as the production of research. 
Subject to paragraph (2), a firm which produces, or arranges for the 
production of, investment research that is intended or likely to be 
subsequently disseminated to clients of the firm or to the public, 
under its own responsibility or that of a member of its group, must 
implement the measures set out in SYSC 10.1.12DR(2), in relation 
to the financial analysts involved in the production of the 
investment research and other relevant persons whose 
responsibilities or business interests may conflict with the interests 
of the persons to whom such research is disseminated. 
(2) 
Paragraph (1) does not apply to a firm which disseminates 
investment research produced by another person to the public or to 
clients where the following conditions are met: 
Page 169 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12.2.19A G 
(1) 
(2) 
12.2.20 
G 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(a) 
the person that produces the investment research is not a 
member of the group to which the firm belongs; 
(b) 
the firm does not substantially alter the recommendations 
within the investment research; 
(c) 
the firm does not present the investment research as having 
been produced by it; and 
(d) 
the firm verifies that the producer of the investment 
research is subject to requirements equivalent to those 
under this chapter in relation to the production of that 
research, or has established a policy setting such 
requirements. 
The measures and arrangements adopted by the firm to manage the 
conflicts of interests that might arise from the production and 
dissemination of material that is presented as investment research 
should be appropriate to protect the objectivity and independence 
of financial analysts and of the investment research they produce. 
Those measures and arrangements should ensure that financial 
analysts enjoy an adequate degree of independence from the 
interests of persons whose responsibilities or business interests 
may reasonably be considered to conflict with the interests of the 
persons to whom the investment research is disseminated. 
The substantial alteration of investment research produced by a 
third party should be governed by the same requirements as the 
production of investment research. 
Firms which produce, or arrange for the production of, investment 
research or non-independent research are also reminded of their 
obligations under SYSC 10 (Conflicts of interest). 
COBS 12.2.19UK relates to the management of conflicts of interest 
in relation to investment research. 
In relation to non-independent research, firms may wish to 
consider whether conflicts arise in relation to: 
(a) 
relevant persons trading in financial instruments that are 
the subject of non-independent research which they know 
the firm has published or intends to publish before clients 
have had a reasonable opportunity to act on it (other than 
when the firm is acting as market maker in good faith and 
in the ordinary course of market making, or in the execution 
of an unsolicited client order); and 
Page 170 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(b) 
the preparation of non-independent research which is 
intended first for internal use by the firm and then for later 
publication to clients. [deleted] 
Measures and arrangements required for investment research 
12.2.21 
UK (1) 
37(2) Investment firms referred to in the first subparagraph of 
R 
paragraph 1 shall A firm falling within COBS 12.2.19R(1) must 
have in place arrangements designed to ensure that the following 
conditions are satisfied: 
(a) 
financial analysts financial analysts and other relevant 
persons relevant persons do not undertake personal 
transactions personal transactions or trade, other than as 
market makers market makers acting in good faith and in 
the ordinary course of market making or in the execution of 
an unsolicited client client order, on behalf of any other 
person person, including the investment firm firm, in 
financial instruments financial instruments to which 
investment research investment research relates, or in any 
related financial instruments financial instruments, with 
knowledge of the likely timing or content of that investment 
research investment research which is not publicly 
available or available to clients clients and cannot readily 
be inferred from information that is so available, until the 
recipients of the investment research investment research 
have had a reasonable opportunity to act on it; 
(b) 
in circumstances not covered by point (a) paragraph (1)(a), 
financial analysts financial analysts and any other relevant 
persons relevant persons involved in the production of 
investment research investment research do not undertake 
personal transactions personal transactions in financial 
instruments financial instruments to which the investment 
research investment research relates, or in any related 
financial instruments financial instruments, contrary to 
current recommendations, except in exceptional 
circumstances and with the prior approval of a member of 
the firm’s firm’s legal or compliance function; 
(c) 
a physical separation exists between the financial analysts 
financial analysts involved in the production of investment 
research investment research and other relevant persons 
relevant persons whose responsibilities or business interests 
may conflict with the interests of the persons persons to 
whom the investment research investment research is 
disseminated or, when considered not appropriate to the 
Page 171 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
size and organisation of the firm firm as well as the nature, 
scale and complexity of its business, the establishment and 
implementation of appropriate alternative information 
barriers; 
(d) 
the investment firms themselves firm itself, financial 
analysts financial analysts, and other relevant persons 
relevant persons involved in the production of the 
investment research investment research do not accept 
inducements from those with a material interest in the 
subject-matter of the investment research investment 
research; 
(e) 
the investment firms themselves firm itself, financial 
analysts financial analysts, and other relevant persons 
relevant persons involved in the production of the 
investment research investment research do not promise 
issuers issuers favourable research coverage; 
(f) 
before the dissemination of investment research issuers, 
relevant persons investment research to issuers, where the 
draft includes a recommendation or target price, no person, 
other than financial analysts financial analysts, and any 
other persons are not permitted to review a draft of the 
investment research investment research except for the 
purpose of verifying the accuracy of factual statements 
made in that research, or for any purpose other than 
verifying compliance with the firm’s firm’s legal 
obligations, where the draft includes a recommendation or a 
target price. 
(2) 
For the purposes of this paragraph (1)(a) and (b), ‘related financial 
instrument financial instrument’ shall be means any financial 
instrument financial instrument the price of which is closely 
affected by price movements in another financial instrument 
financial instrument which is the subject of investment research 
investment research, and includes a derivative derivative on that 
other financial instrument financial instrument. 
Recital 53 
Exceptional circumstances in which financial analysts and other 
persons connected with the investment firm who are involved in 
the production of investment research may, with prior written 
approval, undertake personal transactions in instruments to which 
the research relates should include those circumstances where, for 
personal reasons relating to financial hardship, the financial analyst 
or other person is required to liquidate a position. 
Page 172 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
12.2.21A G 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
Recital 54 
Fees, commissions, monetary or non-monetary benefits received 
by the firm providing investment research from any third party 
should only be acceptable when they are provided in accordance 
with requirements specified in Article 24(9) of Directive 
2014/65/EU and Article 13 of Commission Delegated Directive 
(EU) 2017 / 593. 
Recital 56 
Financial analysts should not engage in activities other than the 
preparation of investment research where engaging in such 
activities are inconsistent with the maintenance of that person’s 
objectivity. These include participating in investment banking 
activities such as corporate finance business and underwriting, 
participating in ‘pitches’ for new business or ‘road shows’ for new 
issues of financial instruments; or being otherwise involved in the 
preparation of issuer marketing. 
The phrase “participating in ‘pitches’ for new business” in Recital 
56 to the MiFID Org Regulation would generally include 
a financial analyst interacting with an issuer to whom the firm is 
proposing to provide underwriting or placing services (including 
the issuer’s representatives outside of the firm and any person who 
has an ownership interest in the issuer), until both: 
(a) 
the firm that employs the financial analyst has agreed to 
carry on regulated activities that amount to underwriting or 
placing services for the issuer; and 
(b) 
the extent of the firm’s obligations to provide underwriting 
or placing services to the issuer as compared to the 
underwriting or placing services of any other firm that is 
appointed by the issuer for the same offering is confirmed 
in writing between the firm and issuer. 
(a) 
It may nevertheless be possible, in limited circumstances, 
for a financial analyst’s interactions with any such person 
referred to under paragraph (1) to be entirely separate from 
the firm’s ‘pitches’ such that the risk to their objectivity 
being impaired would be reasonably low. 
(b) 
However, the FCA considers that would not be the case 
where the analyst is aware of the ‘pitches’, or may have 
reason to believe that the firm is conducting the ‘pitches’. 
In any case a firm should recognise that any situation in which 
there is a connection between its ‘pitches’ and a person with whom 
Page 173 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
its financial analyst interacts can give rise to a conflict of interest 
(see SYSC 10 (Conflicts of interest) and the relevant provisions of 
the MiFID Org Regulation). [deleted] 
12.2.21B 
G 
(1) 
For the purposes of COBS 12.2.21R(1)(b): 
(a) 
exceptional circumstances in which financial analysts and 
other persons connected with the firm who are involved in 
the production of investment research may, with prior 
written approval, undertake personal transactions in 
instruments to which the research relates should include 
those circumstances where, for personal reasons relating to 
financial hardship, the financial analyst or other person is 
required to liquidate a position; and 
(b) 
current recommendations should be considered to be those 
contained in investment research which have not been 
withdrawn and which have not lapsed. 
(2) 
For the purposes of COBS 12.2.21R(1)(c), persons whose 
responsibilities or business interests may reasonably be considered 
to conflict with the interests of the persons to whom investment 
research is disseminated should include corporate finance 
personnel and persons involved in sales and trading on behalf of 
clients or the firm. 
(3) 
For the purposes of COBS 12.2.21R(1)(d), fees, commissions and 
monetary or non-monetary benefits received by the firm providing 
investment research from any third party should only be acceptable 
when they are provided in accordance with COBS 2.3A. 
12.2.21C 
G 
(1) 
Financial analysts should not engage in activities other than the 
preparation of investment research where engaging in such 
activities is inconsistent with the maintenance of their objectivity. 
These include participating in investment banking activities such 
as corporate finance business and underwriting, participating in 
‘pitches’ for new business or ‘road shows’ for new issues of 
financial instruments, or being otherwise involved in the 
preparation of issuer marketing. 
(2) 
‘Participating in ‘pitches’ for new business’ would generally 
include a financial analyst interacting with an issuer to whom the 
firm is proposing to provide underwriting or placing services 
(including the issuer’s representatives outside of the firm and any 
person who has an ownership interest in the issuer), until both: 
Page 174 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(a) 
the firm that employs the financial analyst has agreed to 
carry on regulated activities that amount to underwriting or 
placing services for the issuer; and 
(b) 
the extent of the firm’s obligations to provide underwriting 
or placing services to the issuer as compared to the 
underwriting or placing services of any other firm that is 
appointed by the issuer for the same offering is confirmed 
in writing between the firm and issuer. 
(3) 
It may nevertheless be possible, in limited circumstances, for a 
financial analyst’s interactions with any such person referred to 
under paragraph (5) to be entirely separate from the firm’s 
‘pitches’ such that the risk to their objectivity being impaired 
would be reasonably low. 
(4) 
However, the FCA considers that would not be the case where the 
analyst is aware of the ‘pitches’, or may have reason to believe that 
the firm is conducting the ‘pitches’. 
(5) 
In any case, a firm should recognise that any situation in which 
there is a connection between its ‘pitches’ and a person with whom 
its financial analyst interacts can give rise to a conflict of interest 
(see SYSC 10 (Conflicts of interest)). 
Exemptions from article 37(1) of the MiFID Org Regulation 
12.2.22 
UK 37(3) Investment firms which disseminate investment research produced by 
another person to the public or to clients shall be exempt from complying 
with paragraph 1 if the following criteria are met: 
(a) 
the person that produces the investment research is not a member 
of the group to which the investment firm belongs; 
(b) 
the investment firm does not substantially alter the 
recommendations within the investment research; 
(c) 
the investment firm does not present the investment research as 
having been produced by it; 
(d) 
the investment firm verifies that the producer of the research is 
subject to requirements equivalent to the requirements under this 
Regulation in relation to the production of that research, or has 
established a policy setting such requirements. [deleted] 
… 
12.2.24 
G 
… 
Page 175 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
12.2.25 
R 
A firm subject to COBS 12 must retain the records it is required to make 
under these rules. 
… 
13 
Preparing product information 
… 
13.2 
Product information: production standards, form and contents 
13.2.1 
… 
[Note: article 29(4) of the MiFID implementing Directive] 
… 
13.4 
Contents of a key features illustration 
… 
Exceptions 
… 
13.4.5 
G 
Although there may be no obligation to include a projection in a key 
features illustration, where a firm chooses to include one, the projection it 
should: 
(1) 
Comply comply with the requirements in this section unless the 
projection relates to an investment that is a financial instrument.; 
or 
(2) 
Where where the projection relates to a financial instrument, the 
firm should comply with either: 
(a) 
the requirements in article 44(6) of the MiFID Org 
Regulation (see COBS 4.5A.14UK) COBS 4.5A.14R where 
the firm is carrying on MiFID, equivalent third country or 
optional exemption business); or 
(b) 
the requirements in COBS 4.6.7R where the firm is not 
carrying on MiFID, equivalent third country or optional 
exemption business. 
… 
13.5 
Preparing product information: other projections 
… 
Projections: other situations 
Page 176 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
… 
13.5.2B 
G 
Where a firm communicates a projection for a packaged product that is a 
financial instrument, the following future performance requirements are 
likely to apply: 
(1) 
article 44(6) of the MiFID Org Regulation (see COBS 4.5A.14UK) 
COBS 4.5A.14R where the firm is carrying on MiFID, equivalent 
third country or optional exemption business; or 
(2) 
COBS 4.6.7R where the firm is not carrying on MiFID, equivalent 
third country or optional exemption business. 
Exceptions to the projection rules: projections for more than one product 
13.5.3 
R 
A firm that communicates a projection of benefits for a packaged product 
which is not a financial instrument, as part of a combined projection where 
other benefits being projected include those for a financial instrument or 
structured deposit, is not required to comply with the projection rules in 
COBS 13.4, COBS 13.5 and COBS 13 Annex 2 to the extent that the 
combined projection complies with the future performance requirements in 
either: 
(1) 
article 44(6) of the MiFID Org Regulation (see COBS 4.5A.14UK) 
COBS 4.5A.14R where the firm is carrying on MiFID, equivalent 
third country or optional exemption business; or 
(2) 
COBS 4.6.7R where the firm is not carrying on MiFID, equivalent 
third country or optional exemption business. 
13.5.4 
G 
The general requirement that communications be fair, clear and not 
misleading will nevertheless mean that a firm that elects to comply with the 
future performance rule in COBS 4.6.7R, or, if applicable, the requirement 
in article 44(6) of the MiFID Org Regulation (see COBS 4.5A.14UK) 
COBS 4.5A.14R, will need to explain how the combined projection differs 
from other information that has been or could be provided to the client 
client, including a projection provided under the projection rules in COBS 
13.4, COBS 13.5 and COBS 13 Annex 2. In particular, the firm should 
identify where a projection in real terms is required under COBS 13. 
… 
14 
Providing product information to clients 
… 
14.3 
Information about designated investments (non-MiFID provisions) 
Application 
14.3.1 
R 
(2) 
… 
Page 177 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(3) Where a rule in this chapter applies to a firm which 
is arranging (bringing about) or executing a deal in a speculative 
illiquid security, the rule also applies to: 
(a) 
a TP firm (to the extent that the rule does not already apply to 
such a TP firm as a result of GEN 2.2.26R); and 
(b) 
a Gibraltar-based firm (having the same meaning as in 
the Gibraltar Order) to the extent that the rule does not already 
apply to such a Gibraltar-based firm as a result of GEN 2.3.1R). 
[deleted] 
[Editor’s note: The application of this sourcebook to TP firms and Gibraltar-
based firms is now addressed in COBS 1 Annex 2.] 
14.3.1A 
G 
A firm carrying on MiFID, equivalent third country or optional exemption 
business should consider whether the requirements in articles 46 and 48 of 
the MiFID Org Regulation apply; see COBS 14.3A (Information about 
financial instruments (MiFID provisions)) apply. 
… 
14.3A 
Information about financial instruments (MiFID provisions) 
Application 
14.3A.1 
R 
… 
14.3A.1 
G 
Certain provisions in this section require firms to provide clients with 
A 
information ‘in good time’. Guidance on the provision of information ‘in 
good time’ can be found in COBS 1.4.2G. 
Effect of provisions marked “UK” for third country investment firms and MiFID 
optional exemption firms 
14.3A.2 
R 
Provisions in this section marked “UK” apply in relation to MiFID optional 
exemption business as if they were rules (see COBS 1.2.2G). [deleted] 
14.3A.2 
G 
The effect of GEN 2.2.22AR is that provisions in this section marked “UK” 
A 
also apply in relation to the equivalent business of a third country 
investment firm as if they were rules. [deleted] 
Providing a description of the nature and risks of financial instruments 
… 
14.3A.5 
UK (1) 
48(1) Investment firms shall A firm must provide clients or 
R 
potential clients in good time before the provision of investment 
services or ancillary services to clients or potential clients a client 
with a general description of the nature and risks of financial 
instruments financial instruments, taking into account, in 
particular, the client’s client’s categorisation as either a retail client 
Page 178 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
retail client, professional client professional client or eligible 
counterparty eligible counterparty. 
(2) 
That The description in (1) shall must explain, in sufficient detail 
to enable the client to take investment decisions on an informed 
basis: 
(a) 
the nature of the specific type of instrument financial 
instrument concerned,; 
(b) 
the functioning and performance of the financial instrument 
financial instrument in different market conditions, 
including both positive and negative conditions,; and 
(c) 
as well as the risks particular to that specific type of 
instrument financial instrument in sufficient detail to enable 
the client to take investment decisions on an informed 
basis. 
(3) 
48(2) The description of risks referred to in paragraph 1 shall 
include, where Where relevant to the specific type of instrument 
financial instrument concerned and the status and level of 
knowledge of the client client, the following elements description 
of the risks in (1) must include: 
(a) 
the risks associated with that type of financial instrument 
financial instrument, including an explanation of leverage 
and its effects; and 
(aa) 
the risk of losing the entire investment, including the risks 
associated with insolvency of the issuer or related events, 
such as bail in; 
(b) 
the volatility of the price of such instruments and any 
limitations on the available market for such instruments; 
(c) 
information on any impediments to, or restrictions for on, 
disinvestment, for example (which as may, for example, be 
the case for relevant to illiquid financial instruments 
financial instruments or financial instruments financial 
instruments with a fixed investment term), including. This 
must include: 
(i) 
an illustration of the possible exit methods and 
consequences of any exit,; 
(ii) 
possible constraints on the sale of such instruments; 
and 
(iii) 
the estimated time frame for the sale of the financial 
instrument such instruments before recovering the 
Page 179 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
initial costs of the transaction in that type of 
financial instruments; 
(d) 
the fact that an investor might assume, as a result of 
transactions in such instruments, financial commitments 
and other additional obligations, including contingent 
liabilities, additional to the cost of acquiring the 
instruments; and 
(e) 
any margin requirements or similar obligations, applicable 
to instruments of that type. 
48(3) Where an investment firm provides a retail client or potential retail 
client with information about a financial instrument that is the subject of a 
current offer to the public and a prospectus has been published in 
connection with that offer in accordance with the law of the United 
Kingdom which was relied on immediately before IP completion day to 
implement Directive 2003/71/EC, as that law is amended from time to 
time, that firm shall in good time before the provision of investment 
services or ancillary services to clients or potential clients inform the client 
or potential client where that prospectus is made available to the public. 
48(4) Where a financial instrument is composed of two or more different 
financial instruments or services, the investment firm shall provide an 
adequate description of the legal nature of the financial instrument, the 
components of that instrument and the way in which the interaction 
between the components affects the risks of the investment. 
48(5) In the case of financial instruments that incorporate a guarantee or 
capital protection, the investment firm shall provide a client or a potential 
client with information about the scope and nature of such guarantee or 
capital protection. When the guarantee is provided by a third party, 
information about the guarantee shall include sufficient detail about the 
guarantor and the guarantee to enable the client or potential client to make 
a fair assessment of the guarantee. 
[Note: article 48 of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
14.3A.5 
A 
R 
If a firm provides a retail client with information about a financial 
instrument that is the subject of a current offer to the public and a 
prospectus has been published in connection with that offer in accordance 
with the Prospectus Regulation, that firm must inform the client where that 
prospectus is made available to the public. 
14.3A.5 
B 
R 
Where a financial instrument is composed of 2 or more different financial 
instruments or services, a firm must provide an adequate description of: 
(1) 
the legal nature of that financial instrument; 
(2) 
the components of that financial instrument; and 
Page 180 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(3) 
the way in which the interaction between the components affects 
the risks of the investment. 
14.3A.5 
R 
(1) 
Where a financial instrument incorporates a guarantee or capital 
protection, a firm must provide the client with information about 
the scope and nature of that guarantee or capital protection. 
(2) 
When the guarantee is provided by a third party, the information in 
(1) must include sufficient detail about the guarantor and the 
guarantee to enable the client to make a fair assessment of the 
guarantee. 
Satisfying the provision rules 
14.3A.6 
G 
(1) 
Where a firm is required to provide information to a client before 
the provision of a service, each transaction in respect of the same 
type of financial instrument should not be considered as the 
provision of a new or different service. 
[Note: recital 69 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
Timing of disclosure 
14.3A.7 
UK Subject to paragraph 2A, investment firms A firm must, provide the 
R 
information required by this section in good time before the provision of 
investment services firm provides investment services or ancillary services 
ancillary services to clients or potential clients, to provide the information 
required under Articles 47 to 50 a client. 
46(2A) Where the agreement to buy or sell a financial instrument is 
concluded using a means of distance communication, which prevents the 
delivery of the information on costs and charges before that conclusion: 
(a) 
the investment firm must give the client or potential client the 
option of receiving the information on costs and charges over the 
telephone before the conclusion of the transaction; and 
(b) 
subject to meeting the conditions referred to in paragraph 2B(a) 
and (b), the investment firm may provide the information on costs 
and charges to clients in: 
(i) 
electronic format; or 
(ii) 
where requested by a retail client or potential retail client, 
on paper, without undue delay after the conclusion of the 
transaction. 
46(2B) The conditions referred to in paragraph 2A(b) are: 
Page 181 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(a) 
the client or potential client has requested and consented to 
receiving the information without undue delay after the conclusion 
of the transaction; and 
(b) 
the investment firm has given the client or potential client the 
option of delaying the conclusion of the transaction until the client 
has received the information. 
[Note: article 46(2), (2A) and (2B) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
14.3A.8 
G 
The provisions in COBS that reproduce the information requirements 
contained in articles 47 to 50 of the MiFID Org Regulation are: COBS 
6.1ZA.5UK, COBS 6.1ZA.8UK, COBS 6.1ZA.9UK, COBS 6.1ZA.14UK 
and COBS 14.3A.5UK. [deleted] 
Medium of disclosure 
14.3A.9 
UK 
The information referred to in paragraphs 1 to 2B shall provided in 
R 
accordance with the rules in this section must be provided in a durable 
medium durable medium or by means of a website (where it does not 
constitute a durable medium durable medium) provided that the conditions 
specified in Article 3(2) website conditions are satisfied. 
[Note: article 46(3) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
Keeping the client up-to-date 
14.3A.10 UK (1) 
46(4) Investment firms shall A firm must notify a client client in 
R 
good time about any material change to the information provided 
under Articles 47 to 50 the rules in this section which is relevant to 
a service that the firm firm is providing to that client client. 
(2) 
That The notification shall in (1) must be given in a durable 
medium durable medium if the information to which it relates is 
was given in a durable medium durable medium. 
[Note: article 46(4) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
Information provided in relation to units in collective investment undertakings or 
PRIIPs 
[Editor’s note: Articles 50 and 51 of the MiFID Org Reg are being preserved 
without changes. They will be addressed as part of FCA’s separate work on the 
replacement of the disclosure regime for certain investment products.] 
14.3A.11 UK … 
R 
[Note: article 51 of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
Record keeping 
Page 182 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
14.3A.12 G 
A firm to which SYSC 9 applies is required to keep records of all services, 
activities and transactions undertaken by it. 
14.3A.13 R 
In complying with the requirements in SYSC 9, a firm to which those rules 
apply must keep a record of the information provided to each client in 
compliance with the rules in this section applicable to MiFID, equivalent 
third country and optional exemption business. 
… 
Lifetime ISA information 
Annex 1 
This Annex belongs to COBS 13.3.1R(3) and COBS 14.2.1R(4A). 
Information which comprises the following: 
… 
4 
Projections 
4.1 
R 
Where a firm chooses to provide a projection, including a personal 
projection, in relation to investing in a lifetime ISA in addition to the 
information in COBS 14 Annex 1 3 (Example outcome of retirement 
saving by a retail client in a lifetime ISA), a firm must ensure that: 
… 
(2) 
where a firm that communicates a projection for a lifetime ISA 
in relation to its MiFID or equivalent third country business, 
the projection complies with the future performance 
requirements in article 44(6) of the MiFID Org Regulation (see 
COBS 4.5A.14UK) COBS 4.5A.14R; and 
… 
… 
… 
16A 
Reporting information to clients (MiFID and insurance-based investment 
products provisions) 
16A.1 
Application 
… 
Effect of provisions marked “UK” for third country investment firms and MiFID 
optional exemption firms 
Page 183 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
16A.1.2 
R 
Provisions in this chapter marked “UK” and including a Note (‘Note:’) 
referring to the MiFID Org Regulation apply in relation to MiFID optional 
exemption business as if they were rules (see COBS 1.2.2G). [deleted] 
16A.1.2A 
G 
The effect of GEN 2.2.22AR is that provisions in this chapter marked “UK” 
also apply in relation to the equivalent business of a third country 
investment firm as if they were rules. [deleted] 
16A.2 
General client reporting and record keeping requirements 
… 
16A.2.2 
G 
… 
16A.2.3 
G 
A firm to which SYSC 9 applies is required to keep records of all services, 
activities and transactions undertaken by it. 
16A.2.4 
R 
In complying with the requirements in SYSC 9, a firm to which those rules 
apply must keep a record of each report provided to a client in compliance 
with the rules in this chapter applicable to MiFID, equivalent third country 
and optional exemption business. 
16A.3 
Occasional reporting: MiFID business 
Execution of orders other than when undertaking portfolio management 
16A.3.1 
UK (1) 
59(1) Investment firms having If a firm has carried out an order on 
R 
behalf of a retail client retail client or a professional client 
professional client, other than for portfolio management, shall, in 
respect of that order it must: 
(a) 
promptly provide the retail client or professional client, as 
applicable client, in a durable medium durable medium, with 
the essential information concerning the execution of that 
order; 
(b) 
in the case of a retail client, send a notice to a retail client the 
client a notice in a durable medium durable medium 
confirming execution of the order: 
(i) 
as soon as possible and no later than the first business 
day business day following execution; or, 
(ii) 
where if the confirmation is received by the investment 
firm firm from a third party, no later than the first 
business day business day following receipt of the 
confirmation from the third party.; and 
(c) 
supply the client, on request, with information about the status 
of their order. 
Page 184 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(2) 
Paragraph (1) does not apply to a firm providing a portfolio 
management service. 
(3) 
Point (b) shall Paragraph (1)(b) does not apply where if the 
confirmation would contain the same information as a confirmation 
that is to be promptly dispatched to the client client by another 
person person. 
(4) 
Points (a) and (b) shall Paragraphs (1)(a) and (b) do not apply where 
orders to an order executed on behalf of clients relate a client that 
relates to bonds a bond funding a mortgage loan agreements 
agreement with the said clients, in which case the client. The report 
on the transaction shall must be made at the same time as the terms 
of the mortgage loan are communicated, but no later than one month 
after the execution of the order. 
59(2) In addition to the requirements under paragraph 1, investment 
firms shall supply the client, on request, with information about the 
status of his order. 
(5) 
59(3) In the case of retail client orders If a firm carries out an order 
for a retail client relating to units units or shares shares in a 
collective investment undertaking which is part of a series of orders 
that are executed periodically, investment firms shall it must: 
(a) 
either take the action specified in point (b) of paragraph 1 
comply with paragraph 1(b) in relation to that order; or 
(b) 
provide the retail client client, at least once every six months, 
with the information listed in paragraph 4 (6) in respect of 
those transactions. 
(6) 
59(4) The notice referred to in point (b) of paragraph 1 shall 
required by (1)(b) must include such of the following information as 
is applicable and, where if relevant, in accordance with the 
regulatory technical standards on reporting obligations adopted in 
accordance with Article 26 of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 MiFID 
RTS 22: 
(a) 
the reporting firm firm identification; 
(b) 
the name or other designation of the retail client client; 
… 
(m) a total sum of the commissions and expenses charged and, 
where the retail client client so requests, an itemised 
breakdown including, where relevant, the amount of any 
mark-up or mark-down mark-up or mark-down imposed by 
the firm where the firm acted as principal in executing the 
transaction was executed by an investment firm when dealing 
Page 185 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
on own account, and the investment firm firm owes a duty of 
best execution to the retail client client; 
… 
(o) 
the retail client’s client’s responsibilities in relation to the 
settlement of the transaction, including the time limit for 
payment or delivery as well as the appropriate account details 
where these details and responsibilities have not previously 
been notified to the retail client client; and 
(p) 
where the retail client’s if the client’s counterparty was the 
investment firm firm itself or any person person in the 
investment firm’s group firm’s group or another retail client 
client of the investment firm firm, the fact that this was the 
case unless the order was executed through a trading system 
that facilitates anonymous trading. 
(7) 
For the purposes of point (k) calculating the unit price in paragraph 
(6)(k), where the order is executed in tranches, the investment firm 
firm may supply the retail client retail client with information about 
the price of each tranche or the average price. Where If the average 
price is provided, the investment firm shall firm must supply the 
retail client retail client with information about the price of each 
tranche upon request. 
(8) 
59(5) The investment firm firm may provide the retail client retail 
client with the information referred to in paragraph 4 (6) using 
standard codes if it also provides an explanation of the codes used. 
[Note: article 59 of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
Reporting obligations in respect of eligible counterparties 
16A.3.5 
UK 61 The requirements in articles 46 to 51 and 59 do not apply to services 
provided to eligible counterparties. [deleted] 
[Note: article 61 of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
[Editor’s note: Article 61 of the MiFID Org Reg is now incorporated in the 
table modifying the application of COBS to eligible counterparty business 
in COBS 1 Annex 1, Part 1 1.1R.] 
16A.4 
Periodic reporting 
Provision by a firm and contents: MiFID business 
16A.4.1 
UK (1) 
60(1) Investments firms which provide the service of portfolio 
R 
management to retail clients If a firm is providing a portfolio 
Page 186 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
management service on behalf of a retail client or professional 
clients shall professional client, it must provide each such client the 
client with a periodic statement periodic statement of the activities 
carried out on behalf of that client in a durable medium of the 
portfolio management activities carried out on behalf of that client 
durable medium, unless such a statement is provided by another 
person person. 
(2) 
60(2) The periodic statement required under paragraph 1 shall 
periodic statement must: 
(a) 
provide a fair and balanced review of the activities undertaken 
and of the performance of the client’s portfolio during the 
reporting period; and 
(b) 
shall include, where relevant, the following information to 
retail clients if the client is a retail client, include such of the 
following information as is applicable: 
(a) 
the name of the investment firm firm; 
(i) 
(b) 
the name or other designation of the client’s client’s 
(ii) 
account; 
(c) 
a statement of the contents and the valuation of the 
(iii) 
portfolio, including details of: 
(A) each financial instrument financial instrument 
held, its market value, or fair value if market 
value is unavailable; 
(B) and the cash balance at the beginning and at the 
end of the reporting period,; and 
(C) the performance of the portfolio during the 
reporting period; 
(d) 
the total amount of fees fees and charges incurred 
(iv) 
during the reporting period, itemising at least total 
management fees fees and total costs associated with 
execution, and including, where relevant, a statement 
that a more detailed breakdown will be provided on 
request; 
(e) 
a comparison of performance during the period 
(v) 
covered by the statement with the investment 
performance benchmark (if any) agreed between the 
investment firm firm and the client client; 
Page 187 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(f) 
the total amount of dividends, interest and other 
(vi) 
payments received during the reporting period in 
relation to the client’s client’s portfolio; 
(g) 
information about other corporate actions giving rights 
(vii) 
in relation to financial instruments financial 
instruments held in the portfolio; 
(h) 
for each transaction executed during the period, such 
(viii) of the information referred to in Article 59(4)(c) to (l) 
COBS 16A.3.1R(6)(c) to (l) where relevant as is 
applicable, unless the client client elects to receive 
information about executed transactions on a 
transaction-by-transaction basis, in which case 
paragraph 4 of this Article shall apply (4) applies. 
(3) 
60(3) The periodic statement referred to in paragraph 1 shall 
periodic statement in paragraph (1) must be provided to retail 
clients a retail client once every three months, except in the 
following cases: 
(a) 
where if the investment firm firm: 
(i) 
provides its retail clients the client with access to an 
online system, which qualifies as a durable medium, 
durable medium, and provides the client with easy 
access to: 
(A) 
where up-to-date valuations of the client’s 
client’s portfolio; can be accessed and 
(B) 
where the client can easily access the 
information required by Article 63(2) specified 
in COBS 16A.5.1R(3); and 
(ii) 
the firm has evidence that the client client has accessed 
a valuation of their portfolio at least once during the 
relevant quarter; 
(b) 
in cases where paragraph 4 applies, the periodic statement the 
periodic statement must be provided at least once every 12 
months if;: 
(i) 
the retail client elects to receive information about 
executed transactions on a transaction-by-transaction 
basis; and 
(ii) 
there are no transactions in: 
Page 188 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(A) 
financial instruments covered by paragraphs 4 
to 11 of Part 1 of Schedule 2 to the Regulated 
Activities Order; or 
(B) 
securities giving the right to acquire or sell a 
transferable security or giving rise to a cash 
settlement determined by reference to 
transferable securities, currencies, interest rates 
or yields, commodities or other indices or 
measures; 
(c) 
where if the agreement between an investment firm the firm 
and a retail client the retail client for a portfolio management 
service portfolio management authorises a leveraged portfolio, 
the periodic statement periodic statement must be provided at 
least once a month. 
The exception provided for in point (b) shall not apply in the case of 
transactions in financial instruments covered by Article 2(1)(24)(c) 
of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 or paragraphs 4 to 11 of Part 1 of 
Schedule 2 to the Regulated Activities Order. 
(4) 
60(4) Investment firms, in cases where the retail client If a retail 
client elects to receive information about executed transactions on a 
transaction-by-transaction basis, shall the firm must: 
(a) 
provide promptly to the retail client retail client, on the 
execution of a transaction by the portfolio manager, the 
essential information concerning that transaction in a durable 
medium. durable medium; and 
(b) 
The investment firm shall unless the confirmation would 
contain the same information as a confirmation that is to be 
promptly dispatched to the retail client by another person, 
send the retail client retail client a notice confirming the 
transaction and containing the information referred to in 
Article 59(4) COBS 16A.3.1R(6): 
(i) 
no later than the first business day business day 
following that execution; or, 
(ii) 
where if the confirmation is received by the investment 
firm firm from a third party, no later than the first 
business day business day following receipt of the 
confirmation from the third party. 
The second subparagraph shall not apply where the confirmation 
would contain the same information as a confirmation that is to be 
promptly dispatched to the retail client by another person. 
Page 189 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
[Note: article 60 of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
16A.4.2 
G 
In accordance with COBS 2.4.9R, a firm may dispatch a periodic statement 
(as required by article 60(1) of the MiFID Org Regulation, see COBS 
16A.4.1UK COBS 16A.4.1R) to an agent, other than the firm or an 
associate of the firm, nominated by the client in writing. 
… 
[Editor’s note: Article 62 of the MiFID Org Reg (copied out at COBS 
16A.4.3UK has been repealed. The FCA has consulted separately on deleting 
COBS 16A.4.3UK in Quarterly Consultation Paper No. 44 (CP24/11).] 
Guidance on contingent liability transactions 
16A.4.4 
G 
... 
[Note: recital 96 to the MiFID Org Regulation] 
Guidance on contingent liability transactions 
16A.4.5 
G 
… 
16A.5 
Statements of client financial instruments or client funds 
16A.5.1 
UK (1) 
63(1) Investment firms A firm that hold holds client financial 
R 
instruments financial instruments or client funds shall client money 
for a client must send that client, at least on a quarterly basis, to 
each client for whom they hold financial instruments or funds, a 
statement in a durable medium durable medium of those financial 
instruments financial instruments or funds client money, unless: 
(a) 
such a statement: 
(i) 
has been provided in any other periodic statement. a 
periodic statement; or 
(ii) 
Upon client request, firms shall has been requested more 
frequently by a client, in which case the firm must 
provide such statement it more frequently at a 
commercial cost.; or 
(b) 
the firm: 
(i) 
provides the client with access to an online system, 
which qualifies as a durable medium, where the client 
can easily access up-to-date statements of their financial 
instruments or client money; and 
(ii) 
has evidence that the client has accessed an up-to-date 
statement at least once during the relevant quarter. 
Page 190 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(2) 
The first subparagraph shall not apply to a credit institution that is a 
CRR firm as defined in Article 4(1)(2A) of Regulation (EU) No 
575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on 
prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms 
A UK credit institution need not send a statement in respect of 
deposits within the meaning of Article 2(1)(23A) of Regulation 
(EU) No 600/2014 held by that institution MiFIR held by it. 
(3) 
63(2) The statement of client assets referred to in paragraph 1 shall 
(1) must include the following information: 
(a) 
details of all the financial instruments financial instruments or 
funds client money held by the investment firm firm for the 
client client at the end of the period covered by the statement; 
(b) 
the extent to which any client financial instruments financial 
instruments or client funds client money have been the subject 
of securities financing transactions securities financing 
transactions; 
(c) 
the extent of any benefit that has accrued to the client client 
by virtue of participation in any securities financing 
transactions securities financing transactions, and the basis on 
which that benefit has accrued; 
(d) 
a clear indication of the assets or funds client money which are 
subject to the rules rules of the UK law on markets in 
financial instruments in CASS relating to MiFID business and 
those that are not, such as those that are subject to Title 
Transfer Collateral Agreement title transfer collateral 
arrangements and excluded either from the custody rules as a 
result of CASS 6.1.6R(3) or from the client money rules as a 
result of CASS 7.11.1R(4); 
(e) 
a clear indication of which assets are affected by some any 
peculiarities in their ownership status, for instance due to a 
security interest; and 
(f) 
the market or estimated value, when the market value is not 
available, of the financial instruments financial instruments 
included in the statement with a clear indication of the fact 
that the absence of a market price is likely to be indicative of a 
lack of liquidity. The evaluation of the estimated value shall 
must be performed by the firm firm on a best effort basis. 
(4) 
In cases where the portfolio of a client client includes the proceeds 
of one or more unsettled transactions, the information referred to in 
point (a) (3)(a) may be based either on the trade date or the 
settlement date, provided that the same basis is applied consistently 
to all such information in the statement. 
Page 191 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
The periodic statement of client assets referred to in paragraph 1 
shall not be provided where the investment firm provides its clients 
with access to an online system, which qualifies as a durable 
medium, where up-to-date statements of client’s financial 
instruments or funds can be easily accessed by the client and the 
firm has evidence that the client has accessed this statement at least 
once during the relevant quarter. 
(5) 
63(3) Investment firms A firm which hold financial instruments 
holds financial instruments or funds client money and which carry 
out the service of portfolio management provides a portfolio 
management service for a client client may include the statement of 
client assets referred to in paragraph 1 (1) in the periodic statement 
periodic statement it provides to that client client pursuant to Article 
60(1). 
[Note: article 63 of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
18 
Specialist Regimes 
… 
18.5 
Residual CIS operators and small authorised UK AIFMs 
… 
General modifications 
… 
18.5.3A 
G 
(1) 
COBS 1.2 (Markets in Financial Instruments Directive) contains 
modifications to the text of the MiFID Org Regulation where this is 
applied as rules to firms that are not subject to those provisions 
directly. 
(2) 
These modifications apply to COBS 11.3 (Client order handling), 
which is applied in the table at COBS 18.5.2R. [deleted] 
… 
18.5B 
UCITS management companies 
… 
General modifications 
… 
18.5B.5 
G 
(1) 
COBS 1.2 (Markets in Financial Instruments Directive) contains 
modifications to the text of the MiFID Org Regulation where this is 
Page 192 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
applied as rules to firms that are not subject to those provisions 
directly. 
(2) 
These modifications apply to the following sections that are applied 
in the table in COBS 18.5B.2R: 
(a) 
COBS 11.3 (Client order handling); and 
(b) 
COBS 11 Annex 1EU (Regulatory technical standard 28). 
[deleted] 
… 
18.8A 
OPS firms 
… 
Interpretation and general modifications 
18.8A.2 
R 
Where a COBS rule specified in this section applies to an OPS firm, the 
following modifications apply: 
(1) 
a reference to: 
… 
(b) 
“investment firm” is to be construed as a reference to an OPS 
firm; and 
(2) 
if an OPS firm is required by a COBS rule specified in this section 
to provide information to, or obtain consent from, a client, that firm 
must ensure that the information is provided to, or consent obtained 
from, each of the trustees of the occupational pension scheme or 
welfare trust for whom that firm is acting; and. 
(3) 
subject to the modifications in COBS 18.8A.6 R, COBS 
18.8A.15R(4) and COBS 18.8A.16R(4), COBS 1.2.3R (References 
in COBS to the MiFID Org Regulation) applies where a COBS 
provision marked “UK” applies to an OPS firm. [deleted] 
… 
Best execution 
… 
18.8A.14 
R 
The provisions in COBS 11.2A (Best execution – MiFID provisions) 
marked “UK” and COBS 11 Annex 1UK (Regulatory Technical Standard 
28) apply to an OPS firm to which (1) applies as if they were rules. 
[deleted] 
Modification of best execution rules 
Page 193 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
18.8A.15 
R 
… 
(2) 
The requirement in COBS 11.2A.34UK (see article 65(6) of the 
MiFID Org Regulation) COBS 11.2A.34R to make public for each 
class of financial instruments: 
(a) 
the top five investment firms used by an OPS firm to execute 
client orders; and 
(b) 
information on the quality of execution obtained, 
applies in accordance with (3). 
… 
(4) 
In COBS 11.2A, a reference to: 
… 
(b) 
“portfolio management” in COBS 11.2A.34UK (see article 
65(1) of the MiFID Org Regulation) COBS 11.2A.34R is to 
be construed as a reference to OPS activity falling within the 
scope of COBS 18.8A.13R and which involves the OPS firm 
placing orders with other entities for execution that result 
from decisions by the OPS firm to deal in financial 
instruments on behalf of its client; and 
… 
Client order handling 
18.8A.16 
R 
… 
(2) 
The provisions in COBS 11.3 (Client order handling) marked “UK” 
apply to an OPS firm as if they were rules. [deleted] 
… 
… 
Sch 1 
Record keeping requirements 
Sch 1.1 
G 
The aim of the guidance in the following table in COBS Sch 1.3G is to give 
the reader a quick overall view of the relevant record keeping requirements. 
… 
Page 194 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
Sch 1.2A 
G 
(1) 
A MiFID investment firm, third country investment firm or MiFID 
optional exemption firm should refer to the requirements on record 
keeping in the MiFID Org Regulation this sourcebook and SYSC 9. 
In particular, Annex I to the MiFID Org Regulation contains a 
minimum list of records to be kept by those firms to which it 
applies. 
[Note: article 72 of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
Sch 1.3  
G 
Handbook 
Subject of record 
Contents 
When record 
Retention 
reference 
of record 
must be made 
period 
COBS 
2.2A.7R 
Information 
before providing 
Informati 
on 
services 
provided 
to clients 
… 
COBS 
2.3A.32R 
… 
… 
… 
… 
COBS 
2.3A.35 
Inducements 
Informati 
on 
provided 
to clients 
… 
COBS 
4.11.5R 
… 
… 
… 
… 
COBS 
4.11A.3R 
Communications 
to clients 
Each 
communi 
cation to a 
client. 
Each 
marketing 
communi 
cation 
issued by 
the firm 
Page 195 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(other 
than in 
oral 
form). 
… 
COBS 
4.12A.11R 
(5) 
COBS 
4.12B.21R 
(5) 
… 
… 
… 
… 
COBS 
6.1ZA.25 
R 
Information 
about the firm 
and 
compensation 
information 
(MiFID 
business) 
Informati 
on 
provided 
to clients 
about the 
firm and 
compensa 
tion 
informati 
on 
… 
COBS 
6.2B.40B 
R 
Describing 
advice services 
Informati 
on 
provided 
to clients 
… 
COBS 
9A.4.1G 
… 
… 
… 
… 
COBS 
9A.4.2AR 
Suitability record 
(MiFID 
business) 
Records 
of 
suitability 
assessmen 
ts and 
informati 
on 
provided 
to clients; 
time / 
Page 196 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
date of 
advice 
provided; 
financial 
instrumen 
t 
recomme 
nded; 
suitability 
report 
… 
COBS 
Appropriateness 
Records 
Date of 
At least 5 
10A.7.2U 
(MiFID 
of 
assessment 
years 
K COBS 
provisions) 
appropriat 
10A.7.2R 
eness 
assessmen 
ts 
including 
the results 
of such 
assessmen 
ts and any 
warnings 
given to 
clients 
COBS 
10A.7.2A 
R 
… 
… 
… 
… 
COBS 
Client order 
Records 
11.3.15R 
handling – 
aggregated 
transactions, 
aggregation and 
allocation of 
transactions for 
own account 
the firm is 
required 
to make 
under 
COBS 
11.3.2AR 
to COBS 
11.3.13G 
COBS 
Client orders 
Initial 
Immediately 
At least 5 
11.5A.4U 
orders 
years 
K COBS 
from 
11.5A.2R 
clients 
and 
Page 197 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
decisions 
to deal 
COBS 
Client orders 
Transacti 
Immediately 
At least 5 
11.5A.5U 
ons and 
years 
K COBS 
order 
11.5A.3R 
processin 
g 
… 
COBS 
Personal account 
A record 
Date of 
At least 5 
11.7A.5U 
dealing (MiFID 
of any 
notification, 
years 
K COBS 
provisions) 
personal 
identification or 
11.7A.5R 
transactio 
n notified 
or 
identified, 
including 
any 
authorisat 
ion or 
prohibitio 
n 
decision 
… 
COBS 
Underwriting 
Content 
Date of receipt 
5 years 
11A.1.9U 
and placing 
and 
of instructions 
K COBS 
timing of 
or of allocation 
11A.1.9R 
instructio 
ns 
received 
from 
clients 
and 
allocation 
decisions 
decision 
COBS 
Investment 
Records 
12.2.25R 
research 
the firm is 
required 
to make 
under 
COBS 12 
(Investme 
Page 198 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
nt 
Research) 
COBS 
14.3A.13R 
Information 
about financial 
instruments 
(MiFID 
business) 
Informati 
on 
provided 
to clients 
about 
financial 
instrumen 
ts 
… 
COBS 
16.3.11R 
… 
… 
… 
… 
COBS 
Reporting 
Records 
16A.2.4R 
information to 
clients (MiFID 
of reports 
provided 
business) 
to clients 
COBS 
Confirmation to 
A copy of 
From date of 
At least 5 
16A.3.1U 
clients (MiFID 
a 
despatch to 
years 
K COBS 
provisions) 
confirmati client 
16A.3.1R 
on 
COBS 
Periodic 
A copy of 
From date of 
At least 5 
16A.4.1U 
statements 
a periodic 
despatch to 
years 
K COBS 
(MiFID 
statement 
client 
16A.4.1R 
provisions) 
sent to a 
client 
… 
… 
Sch 5 
Rights of action for damages 
… 
Sch 5.2 
G 
If a "Yes" appears in the column headed "For private person?", the rule 
may be actionable by a "private person" under section 138D (or, in certain 
circumstances, his fiduciary or representative; see article 6(2) and (3)(c) of 
Page 199 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
… 
Sch 5.4 
G 
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Rights of Action) 
Regulations 2001 (SI 2001/2256)). A "Yes" in the column headed 
"Removed" indicates that the FCA has removed the right of action under 
section 150(2) 138D(3) of the Act. If so, a reference to the rule in which it 
is removed is also given. 
Right of action under section 138D 
Chapter/ 
Appendix 
Section/ 
Annex 
Paragraph For 
private 
person? 
Removed? For 
other 
person? 
… 
The fair, clear and not 
misleading rule 
Yes 
In part 
(Note 1) 
No 
Any rule in COBS which 
imposes a requirement to keep a 
record for the purpose of 
complying with SYSC 9 
No 
Yes 
(COBS 
1.1.7R) 
No 
… 
Page 200 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
Annex G 
Amendments to Client Assets sourcebook (CASS) 
In this Annex, underlining indicates new text and striking through indicates deleted text. 
3 
Collateral 
… 
3.2 
Requirements 
Application 
… 
3.2.4 
G 
When appropriate, firms that enter into the arrangements with retail clients 
covered in this chapter will be expected to identify in the statement of 
custody assets sent to the client in accordance with COBS 16.4 (Statements 
of client designated investments or client money), article 63 of the MiFID 
Org Regulation (see COBS 16A.5 (Statements of client financial 
instruments or client funds) or CASS 9.5 (Reporting to clients on request) 
details of the assets which form the basis of the arrangements. Where the 
firm utilises global netting arrangements, a statement of the assets held on 
this basis will suffice. 
… 
9 
Information to clients 
… 
9.4 
Information to clients concerning custody assets and client money 
… 
9.4.2A 
R 
(1) 
Firms to which COBS 6.1ZA (Information about the firm and 
compensation information (MiFID and insurance distribution 
provisions)) applies are reminded of the requirements under article 
49 of the MiFID Org Regulation (which are directly applicable to 
some firms and which are also applied to firms in other 
circumstances under COBS 6.1ZA.3R COBS 6.1ZA.9 R) to provide 
certain information to a client when the firm is holding the client’s 
financial instruments or funds (see COBS 6.1ZA.9EUR) and the 
requirement under COBS 6.1ZA.10AR when a firm doing insurance 
distribution activities is holding client money and has elected to 
comply with the client money chapter. 
(2) 
COBS 6.1ZA (Information about the firm and compensation 
information (MiFID and insurance distribution provisions)) applies 
to a firm in relation to its MiFID, equivalent third country or 
Page 201 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
optional exemption business or its insurance distribution activities 
for a client. 
9.4.2B 
R 
A firm to which COBS 6.1ZA applies that holds custody assets or client 
money must, in relation to its business for which COBS 6.1ZA applies: 
(1) 
provide the information referred to in paragraphs 2 to 7 of article 49 
of the MiFID Org Regulation COBS 6.1ZA.9R for any custody asset 
that the firm may hold for a client, including: 
(a) 
any custody asset which is a designated investment but not a 
financial instrument; and 
(b) 
any custody asset which is neither a designated investment 
nor a financial instrument; and 
(2) 
provide the information in (1) to each of its clients. 
… 
9.4.4 
G 
(1) 
Firms are reminded of their obligation, under COBS 4.2.1R, to be 
fair, clear and not misleading in their communications with clients. 
(2) 
Firms are also reminded of the requirements in respect of 
communications made to retail clients under COBS 4.5 and clients 
under article 44 of the MiFID Org and COBS 4.5A (as applicable). 
9.5 
Reporting to clients on request 
… 
9.5.2 
G 
Firms are reminded that the requirements in COBS 16.4, article 63 of the 
MiFID Org Regulation and COBS 16A.4 and COBS 16A.5.1R only set out 
the minimum frequency at which firms must report to their clients on their 
holdings of designated investments and/or client money. Firms may choose 
to report to their clients more frequently. 
… 
9.5.4A 
R 
(1) 
Firms to which COBS 16A applies are reminded of the requirements 
under article 63 of the MiFID Org Regulation (which are directly 
applicable to some firms and which are also applied to firms in other 
circumstances under COBS 16A.1.2R) COBS 16A.5.1R in relation to 
quarterly statements when the firm is holding a client’s financial 
instruments or funds client money (see COBS 16A.4.1EUR and 
COBS 16A.5.1EUR). 
… 
… 
Page 202 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
9.5.4C 
G 
A firm to which COBS 16A applies may combine the statement required 
under CASS 9.5.4BR with a statement issued in response to a request made 
under the last sentence of the first sub-paragraph of article 63(1) of the 
MiFID Org Regulation COBS 16A.5.1R(1)(a)(ii). 
… 
9.5.9 
G 
Firms are reminded that under CASS 3.2.4G firms that enter into 
arrangements with retail clients covered by CASS 3 (Collateral) should, 
when appropriate, identify in any statement of custody assets sent to the 
client under COBS 16.4 (Statements of client designated investments or 
client money), article 63 of the MiFID Org Regulation COBS 16A.5.1R or 
COBS 16A.4 (as applicable) or this section the details of the assets which 
form the basis of that collateral arrangement. 
Page 203 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
Annex H 
Amendments to the Market Conduct sourcebook (MAR) 
In this Annex, underlining indicates new text and striking through indicates deleted text, 
unless stated otherwise. 
Insert the following Annex, MAR 1 Annex 3R, after MAR 1 Annex 2UK (Accepted Market 
Practices). The text is not underlined. 
Requirement for operators of trading venues to inform the FCA immediately 
Annex 
3R 
1 
Signals that may indicate significant infringements of the rules of a 
trading venue or disorderly trading conditions or system disruptions in 
relation to a financial instrument 
Significant infringements of the rules of a trading venue 
(1) 
Market participants infringe rules of the trading venue which aim to 
protect the market integrity, the orderly functioning of the market or 
the significant interests of the other market participants. 
(2) 
A trading venue considers that an infringement is of sufficient 
severity or impact to justify consideration of disciplinary action. 
Disorderly trading conditions 
(3) 
The price discovery process is interfered with over a significant 
period of time. 
(4) 
The capacities of the trading system are reached or exceeded. 
(5) 
Market makers or liquidity providers repeatedly claim mis-trades. 
(6) 
Breakdown or failure of critical mechanisms under paragraphs 3 to 
3F of the Schedule to the Recognition Requirements Regulations, and 
MAR 5.3A and MAR 5.5A, which are designed to protect the trading 
venue against the risks of algorithmic trading. 
System disruptions 
(7) 
Any major malfunction or breakdown of the system for market access 
that results in participants losing their ability to enter, adjust or cancel 
their orders. 
(8) 
Any major malfunction or breakdown of the system for the matching 
of transactions that results in participants losing certainty over the 
status of completed transactions or live orders as well as 
Page 204 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
unavailability of information indispensable for trading (eg, index 
value dissemination for trading certain derivatives on that index). 
(9) 
Any major malfunction or breakdown of the systems for the 
dissemination of pre- and post-trade transparency and other relevant 
data published by trading venues. 
(10) 
Any major malfunction or breakdown of the systems of the trading 
venue to monitor and control the trading activities of the market 
participants; and any major malfunction or breakdown in the sphere 
of other interrelated services providers, in particular central 
counterparties and central securities depositories that has 
repercussions on the trading system. 
2 
Signals that may indicate abusive behaviour under the Market Abuse 
Regulation 
Signals of possible insider dealing or market manipulation 
(1) 
Unusual concentration of transactions and/or orders to trade in a 
particular financial instrument with one member or participant or 
between certain members or participants. 
(2) 
Unusual repetition of a transaction among a small number of 
members or participants over a certain period of time. 
Signals of possible insider dealing 
(3) 
Unusual and significant trading or submission of orders to trade in the 
financial instruments of a company by certain members or 
participants before the announcement of important corporate events 
or of price sensitive information relating to the company, and orders 
to trade or transactions resulting in sudden and unusual changes in the 
volume of orders or transactions and/or prices before public 
announcements regarding the financial instrument in question. 
(4) 
Orders to trade are given or transactions are undertaken by a market 
member or participant before or immediately after that member or 
participant or persons publicly known as linked to that member or 
participant produce or disseminate research or investment 
recommendations that are made publicly available. 
Signals of possible market manipulation 
The signals described in points (18) to (23) are particularly relevant in an 
automated trading environment. 
(5) 
Orders to trade given or transactions undertaken which represent a 
significant proportion of the daily volume of transactions in the 
relevant financial instrument on the trading venue concerned, in 
Page 205 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
particular when these activities lead to a significant change in the 
price of the financial instruments. 
(6) 
Orders to trade given or transactions undertaken by a member or 
participant with a significant buying or selling interest in a financial 
instrument which lead to significant changes in the price of the 
financial instrument on a trading venue. 
(7) 
Orders to trade given or transactions undertaken which are 
concentrated within a short time span in the trading session and lead 
to a price change which is subsequently reversed. 
(8) 
Orders to trade given which change the representation of the best bid 
or offer prices in a financial instrument admitted to trading or traded 
on a trading venue, or more generally the representation of the order 
book available to market participants, and are removed before they 
are executed. 
(9) 
Transactions or orders to trade by a market participant with no other 
apparent justification than to increase or decrease the price or value 
of, or to have a significant impact on the supply of, or demand for, a 
financial instrument, namely near the reference point during the 
trading day, eg, at the opening or near the close. 
(10) 
Buying or selling of a financial instrument at the reference time of 
the trading session (eg, opening, closing, settlement) in an effort to 
increase, to decrease or to maintain the reference price (eg, opening 
price, closing price, settlement price) at a specific level (usually 
known as ‘marking the close’). 
(11) 
Transactions or orders to trade which have the effect of, or are likely 
to have the effect of, increasing or decreasing the weighted average 
price of the day or of a period during the session. 
(12) 
Transactions or orders to trade which have the effect of, or are likely 
to have the effect of, setting a market price when the liquidity of the 
financial instrument or the depth of the order book is not sufficient to 
fix a price within the session. 
(13) 
In the case of execution of a transaction, changing the bid-offer prices 
when this spread is a factor in the determination of the price of 
another transaction whether or not on the same trading venue. 
(14) 
Entering orders representing significant volumes in the central order 
book of the trading system a few minutes before the price 
determination phase of the auction and cancelling these orders a few 
seconds before the order book is frozen for computing the auction 
price so that the theoretical opening price might look higher or lower 
than it otherwise would do. 
Page 206 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(15) 
Engaging in a transaction or series of transactions which are shown 
on a public display facility to give the impression of activity or price 
movement in a financial instrument (usually known as ‘painting the 
tape’). 
(16) 
Transactions carried out as a result of the entering of buy and sell 
orders to trade at, or nearly at, the same time, with a very similar 
quantity and similar price, by the same or different but colluding 
market members or participants (usually known as ‘improper 
matched orders’). 
(17) 
Transactions or orders to trade which have the effect of, or are likely 
to have the effect of, bypassing the trading safeguards of the market 
(eg, as regards volume limits, price limits, bid/offer spread 
parameters, etc). 
(18) 
Entering of orders to trade or a series of orders to trade, executing 
transactions or series of transactions likely to start or exacerbate a 
trend and to encourage other participants to accelerate or extend the 
trend in order to create an opportunity to close out or open a position 
at a favourable price (usually known as ‘momentum ignition’). 
(19) 
Submitting multiple or large orders to trade often away from the 
touch on one side of the order book in order to execute a trade on the 
other side of the order book. Once that trade has taken place, the 
manipulative orders will be removed (usually known as ‘layering and 
spoofing’). 
(20) 
Entry of small orders to trade in order to ascertain the level of hidden 
orders and particularly used to assess what is resting on a dark 
platform (usually know as a ‘ping order’). 
(21) 
Entry of large numbers of orders to trade and/or cancellations and/or 
updates to orders to trade so as to create uncertainty for other 
participants, slowing down their process and to camouflage their own 
strategy (usually known as ‘quote stuffing’). 
(22) 
Posting of orders to trade, to attract other market members or 
participants employing traditional trading techniques (‘slow traders’), 
that are then rapidly revised onto less generous terms, hoping to 
execute profitably against the incoming flow of ‘slow traders’ orders 
to trade (usually known as ‘smoking’). 
(23) 
Executing orders to trade or a series of orders to trade, in order to 
uncover orders of other participants, and then entering an order to 
trade to take advantage of the information obtained (usually known as 
‘phishing’). 
(24) 
The extent to which, to the best knowledge of the operator of a 
trading venue, orders to trade given or transactions undertaken show 
Page 207 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
evidence of position reversals in a short period and represent a 
significant proportion of the daily volume of transactions in the 
relevant financial instrument on the trading venue concerned, and 
might be associated with significant changes in the price of a 
financial instrument admitted to trading or traded on the trading 
venue. 
Signals for cross-product market manipulation, including across trading 
venues 
The signals described below are particularly relevant to the operator of a 
trading venue where both a financial instrument and related financial 
instruments are admitted to trading or traded or where the above mentioned 
instruments are traded on several trading venues operated by the same 
operator. 
(25) 
Transactions or orders to trade which have the effect of, or are likely 
to have the effect of increasing, decreasing or maintaining the price 
of a financial instrument during the days preceding the issue, optional 
redemption or expiry of a related derivative or convertible. 
(26) 
Transactions or orders to trade which have the effect of, or are likely 
to have the effect of, maintaining the price of the underlying financial 
instrument below or above the strike price, or other element used to 
determine the pay-out (eg, barrier) of a related derivative at 
expiration date. 
(27) 
Transactions which have the effect of, or are likely to have the effect 
of, modifying the price of the underlying financial instrument so that 
it surpasses or does not reach the strike price, or other element used 
to determine the pay-out (eg, barrier) of a related derivative at 
expiration date. 
(28) 
Transactions which have the effect of, or are likely to have the effect 
of, modifying the settlement price of a financial instrument when this 
price is used as a reference or determinant, namely, in the calculation 
of margins requirements. 
(29) 
Orders to trade given or transactions undertaken by a member or 
participant with a significant buying or selling interest in a financial 
instrument which lead to significant changes in the price of the 
related derivative or underlying asset admitted to trading on a trading 
venue. 
(30) 
Undertaking trading or entering orders to trade in one trading venue 
or outside a trading venue (including entering indications of interest) 
with a view to improperly influencing the price of a related financial 
instrument in another or in the same trading venue or outside a 
trading venue (usually known as ‘cross-product manipulation’). 
Page 208 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(31) 
Creating or enhancing arbitrage possibilities between a financial 
instrument and another related financial instrument by influencing 
reference prices of one of the financial instruments can be carried out 
with different financial instruments (e.g, rights or shares, cash 
markets or derivatives markets, warrants or shares, etc). In the 
context of rights issues, it could be achieved by influencing the 
(theoretical) opening or (theoretical) closing price of the rights. 
Amend the following as shown. 
5 
Multilateral trading facilities (MTFs) 
… 
5.6 
Reporting requirements 
5.6.1 
R 
A firm must: 
… 
(2) 
supply the information required under this rule without delay to the FCA 
and any other authority competent for the investigation and prosecution 
of market abuse; and 
(3) 
provide full assistance to the FCA, and any other authority competent for 
the investigation and prosecution of market abuse, in its investigation 
and prosecution of market abuse occurring on or through the firm’s 
systems.; 
(4) 
when assessing whether the requirement to inform the FCA immediately 
of significant infringements of the rules of its trading venue, or 
disorderly trading conditions or system disruptions in relation to a 
financial instrument applies, consider the signals listed in MAR 1 Annex 
3R 1; and 
(5) 
when assessing whether the requirement to immediately inform the FCA 
of conduct that may indicate behaviour that is prohibited under the 
Market Abuse Regulation applies, consider the signals listed in MAR 1 
Annex 3R 2. 
5.6.1A 
R 
(1) 
A firm operating one or several trading venues where a financial 
instrument and/or related financial instrument are traded must apply a 
proportionate approach and exercise judgement on the signals triggered, 
including any relevant signals not specifically included in MAR 1 Annex 
3R 2, before informing the FCA, taking into account the following: 
(a) 
the deviations from the usual trading pattern of the financial 
instruments admitted to trading or traded on its trading venue; 
and 
Page 209 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(b) 
the information available or accessible to the firm, whether that be 
internally as part of the operations of the trading venue or 
publicly available. 
(2) 
For the purposes of (1) ‘related financial instrument’ means any 
financial instrument the price of which is closely affected by price 
movements in another financial instrument which is the subject of 
investment research, and includes a derivative on that other financial 
instrument. 
(3) 
(a) 
A firm operating one or several trading venues must also take into 
account front running behaviours, which consist in a market 
member or participant trading, for its own account, ahead of its 
client. 
(b) 
For the purposes of (a), a firm must use the order book data 
required to be recorded by the trading venue pursuant to Article 
25 of MiFIR (Obligation to maintain records) – in particular, 
those relating to the way the member or participant conducts its 
trading activity. 
[Note: article 31(2) of MiFID and articles 81 and 82 of the MiFID Org 
Regulation] 
… 
5.6.3 
R 
… 
5.6.4 
G (1) 
For the purposes of the signals referred to in MAR 1 Annex 3R, 
references to ‘order to trade’ should encompass all types of orders, 
including initial orders, modifications, updates and cancellations of 
orders, irrespective of whether or not they have been executed and 
irrespective of the means used to access the trading venue. 
(2) 
The list of signals of insider dealing and market manipulation is neither 
exhaustive nor determinative of market abuse or attempts of market 
abuse, as each of the signals may not necessarily constitute market abuse 
or attempts of market abuse per se. Transactions or orders to trade 
meeting one or more signals may be conducted for legitimate reasons or 
in compliance with the rules of the trading venue. 
5.6A 
Suspension and removal of financial instruments 
5.6A.1 
R 
… 
[Note: article 32 of MiFID, article 80 of the MiFID Org Regulation, MiFID 
RTS 18 and MiFID ITS 2] 
5.6A.2 
R 
(1) 
For the purposes of MAR 5.6A.1R(1), a suspension or a removal from 
trading of a financial instrument will be likely to cause significant 
Page 210 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
damage to investors’ interests or the orderly functioning of the market in 
at least the following circumstances: 
(a) 
where it would create a systemic risk undermining financial 
stability, such as where the need exists to unwind a dominant 
market position, or where settlement obligations would not be 
met in a significant volume; 
(b) 
where the continuation of trading on the market is necessary to 
perform critical post-trade risk management functions when there 
is a need for the liquidation of financial instruments due to the 
default of a clearing member under the default procedures of a 
CCP and a CCP would be exposed to unacceptable risks as a 
result of an inability to calculate margin requirements; 
(c) 
where the financial viability of the issuer would be threatened, 
such as where it is involved in a corporate transaction or capital 
raising. 
(2) 
For the purposes of determining whether a suspension or a removal is 
likely to cause significant damage to the investors’ interest or the 
orderly functioning of the markets in any particular case, a firm must 
consider all relevant factors, including: 
(a) 
the relevance of the market in terms of liquidity where the 
consequences of the actions are likely to be more significant 
where those markets are more relevant in terms of liquidity than 
in other markets; 
(b) 
the nature of the envisaged action where actions with a sustained 
or lasting impact on the ability of investors to trade a financial 
instrument on trading venues, such as removals, are likely to have 
a greater impact on investors than other actions; 
(c) 
the knock-on effects of a suspension or removal of sufficiently 
related derivatives, indices or benchmarks for which the removed 
or suspended instrument serves as an underlying or constituent; 
(d) 
the effects of a suspension on the interests of market end users 
who are not financial counterparties, such as entities trading in 
financial instruments to hedge commercial risks. 
(3) 
A firm must also take into account the factors set out in MAR 
5.6A.2R(2) when deciding not to suspend or remove a financial 
instrument on the basis of circumstances other than those specified in 
MAR 5.6A.2R(1). 
… 
5.10 
Operation of an SME growth market 
Page 211 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
Registering an MTF as an SME growth market 
… 
5.10.2 
R 
… 
5.10.2 
R 
For the purposes of MAR 5.10.2R, a firm must: 
A 
(1) 
determine whether at least 50% of the issuers admitted to trading on an 
MTF are SMEs on the basis of a calculation of the average ratio of SMEs 
over the total number of issuers whose financial instruments are 
admitted to trading on that market; 
(2) 
calculate the average ratio on 31 December of the previous calendar 
year as the average of the 12 end-of-month ratios of that calendar year; 
(3) 
demonstrate that the MTF: 
(a) 
has established and applies rules providing for objective and 
transparent criteria for the initial and ongoing admission to 
trading of issuers on its venue; 
(b) 
has an operating model which is appropriate for the performance 
of its functions and ensures the maintenance of fair and orderly 
trading in the financial instruments admitted to trading on its 
venue; 
(c) 
has established and applies rules that require an issuer seeking 
admission of its financial instruments to trading on the MTF to 
publish, in cases where the UK prospectus regime does not apply, 
an appropriate admission document, drawn up under the 
responsibility of the issuer and clearly stating whether or not it 
has been approved or reviewed and by whom; 
(d) 
has established and applies rules that define the minimum content 
of the admission document referred to in (c), in such a way that 
sufficient information is provided to investors to enable them to 
make an informed assessment of the financial position and 
prospects of the issuer, and the rights attaching to its securities; 
(e) 
requires the issuer to state, in the admission document referred to 
in (c), whether or not, in its opinion, its working capital is 
sufficient for its present requirements or, if not, how it proposes 
to provide the additional working capital needed; 
(f) 
has made arrangements for the admission document referred to in 
(c) to be subject to an appropriate review of its completeness, 
consistency and comprehensibility; 
Page 212 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(g) 
requires the issuers whose securities are traded on its venue to 
publish annual financial reports within 6 months after the end of 
each financial year, and half yearly financial reports within 4 
months after the end of the first 6 months of each financial year; 
(h) 
ensures dissemination to the public of prospectuses drawn up in 
accordance with the UK prospectus regime, admission documents 
referred to in (c), financial reports referred to in (g) and 
information defined in Article 7(1) of the Market Abuse 
Regulation (Authorisation of deferred publication) publicly 
disclosed by the issuers whose securities are traded on its venue, 
by publishing them on its website, or providing a direct link to the 
page of the website of the issuers where such documents, reports 
and information are published; 
(i) 
ensures that the regulatory information referred to in (h) and 
direct links remain available on its website for a period of at least 
5 years; 
(j) 
requires issuers seeking admission of their shares to trading on its 
venue for the first time to allocate a minimum amount of their 
issued shares available for trading on the MTF, in accordance 
with a threshold to be established by the operator of the MTF and 
expressed either as an absolute value or as a percentage of the 
total issued share capital. 
5.10.2B R 
(1) 
The operator of an MTF may exempt issuers that have no equity 
instruments traded on the MTF from the requirement to publish half-
yearly financial reports referred to in MAR 5.10.2AR(3)(g). 
(2) 
Where the operator of an MTF exercises the option under MAR 
5.10.2AR(4), issuers that have no equity instruments traded on the MTF 
will not be required to publish half-yearly financial reports pursuant to 
MAR 5.10.2AR(3)(g). 
5.10.2C G (1) 
An SME growth market may be deregistered where the proportion of 
SMEs, as determined in accordance with MAR 5.10.2AR(1), falls below 
50% for 3 consecutive calendar years. 
(2) 
The operator of an SME growth market is liable to deregistration where 
the conditions in MAR 5.10.2R(2) to (7) and MAR 5.10.2AR(3) are no 
longer satisfied. 
… 
5A 
Organised trading facilities (OTFs) 
… 
5A.3 
Specific requirements for OTFs 
Page 213 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
… 
Other MiFID Obligations 
5A.3.9 
R
A firm must comply with the obligations under the following provisions of 
MiFID, in the course of operating an OTF: 
(1) 
Articles 16(2), 16(3) (first subparagraph), 16(4), 16(5), 16(6), 16(7), 
16(8), 16(9), and 16(10); 
(2) 
Articles 24(1), (3), (4), (5), (9), (10) and (11); 
(3) 
Articles 25(3) (except to the extent that article 25(4) applies), and 25(6) 
(to the extent applicable); 
(4) 
Article 27; and 
(5) 
Article 28. 
[Note: article 20(8) of MiFID. The above MiFID provisions are transposed as 
follows in the FCA Handbook: 
(1) 
SYSC 6.1.1, SYSC 10.1.7, SYSC 4.1.6, SYSC 8.1.1, SYSC 4.1.1(1), SYSC 
4.1.1(3), SYSC 9.1.1A, SYSC 10A, CASS 6.2.1 and CASS 7.12.1; 
(2) 
COBS 2.1.1, COBS 4.2.1, COBS 4.3.1, COBS 2.2A.2, COBS 2.2A.3, 
COBS 2.3A.5, SYSC 19F.1.2 and COBS 6.1ZA.16; 
(3) 
COBS 10A.2.1, COBS 10A.2.2, COBS 10A.3.1, COBS 10A.3.2, COBS 
10A.4.1, COBS 8A, COBS 16A.2.1 and COBS 9A.3.2; 
(4) 
COBS 11.2A; and 
(5) 
COBS 11.3.] [deleted] 
… 
5A.8 
Reporting requirements 
5A.8.1 
R 
A firm must: 
… 
(2) 
supply the information required under this rule without delay to the FCA 
and any other authority competent for the investigation and prosecution 
of market abuse; and 
(3) 
provide full assistance to the FCA, and any other authority competent 
for the investigation and prosecution of market abuse, in its 
investigation and prosecution of market abuse occurring on or through 
the firm’s systems.; 
Page 214 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(4) 
when assessing whether the requirement to inform the FCA immediately 
of significant infringements of the rules of its trading venue or 
disorderly trading conditions or system disruptions in relation to a 
financial instrument applies, consider the signals listed in MAR 1 Annex 
3R 1; and 
(5) 
when assessing whether the requirement to immediately inform the FCA 
of conduct that may indicate behaviour that is prohibited under the 
Market Abuse Regulation applies, consider the signals listed in MAR 1 
Annex 3R 2. 
5A.8.1 
A 
R 
(1) 
A firm operating one or several trading venues where a financial 
instrument and/or related financial instrument are traded must apply a 
proportionate approach and exercise judgement on the signals triggered, 
including any relevant signals not specifically included in MAR 1 Annex 
3R 2, before informing the FCA, taking into account the following: 
(a) 
the deviations from the usual trading pattern of the financial 
instruments admitted to trading or traded on its trading venue; 
and 
(b) 
the information available or accessible to the firm, whether that be 
internally as part of the operations of the trading venue or 
publicly available. 
(2) 
For the purposes of (1) ‘related financial instrument’ means any 
financial instrument the price of which is closely affected by price 
movements in another financial instrument which is the subject of 
investment research, and includes a derivative on that other financial 
instrument. 
(3) 
(a) 
A firm operating one or several trading venues must also take into 
account front running behaviours, which consist in a market 
member or participant trading, for its own account, ahead of its 
client. 
(b) 
For the purposes of (a) a firm must use the order book data 
required to be recorded by the trading venue pursuant to Article 
25 of MiFIR (Obligation to maintain records) – in particular, 
those relating to the way the member or participant conducts its 
trading activity. 
[Note: article 31(2) of MiFID, articles 81 and 82 of the MiFID Org Regulation, 
MiFID RTS 18 and MiFID ITS 2] 
5A.8.2 
G (1) 
For the purposes of the signals referred to in MAR 1 Annex 3R, 
references to ‘order to trade’ should encompass all types of orders, 
including initial orders, modifications, updates and cancellations of 
orders, irrespective of whether or not they have been executed and 
irrespective of the means used to access the trading venue. 
Page 215 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(2) 
The list of signals of insider dealing and market manipulation is neither 
exhaustive nor determinative of market abuse or attempts of market 
abuse, as each of the signals may not necessarily constitute market abuse 
or attempts of market abuse per se. Transactions or orders to trade 
meeting one or more signals may be conducted for legitimate reasons or 
in compliance with the rules of the trading venue. 
5A.9 
Suspension and removal of financial instruments 
5A.9.1 
R 
… 
[Note: article 32 of MiFID, article 80 of the MiFID Org Regulation and MiFID 
RTS 18] 
5A.9.2 
R 
(1) 
For the purposes of MAR 5A.9.1R(1), a suspension or a removal from 
trading of a financial instrument will be likely to cause significant 
damage to investors’ interests or the orderly functioning of the market in 
at least the following circumstances: 
(a) 
where it would create a systemic risk undermining financial 
stability, such as where the need exists to unwind a dominant 
market position, or where settlement obligations would not be 
met in a significant volume; 
(b) 
where the continuation of trading on the market is necessary to 
perform critical post-trade risk management functions when there 
is a need for the liquidation of financial instruments due to the 
default of a clearing member under the default procedures of a 
CCP and a CCP would be exposed to unacceptable risks as a 
result of an inability to calculate margin requirements; 
(c) 
where the financial viability of the issuer would be threatened, 
such as where it is involved in a corporate transaction or capital 
raising. 
(2) 
For the purposes of determining whether a suspension or a removal is 
likely to cause significant damage to the investors’ interest or the 
orderly functioning of the markets in any particular case, a firm must 
consider all relevant factors, including: 
(a) 
the relevance of the market in terms of liquidity where the 
consequences of the actions are likely to be more significant 
where those markets are more relevant in terms of liquidity than 
in other markets; 
(b) 
the nature of the envisaged action where actions with a sustained 
or lasting impact on the ability of investors to trade a financial 
instrument on trading venues, such as removals, are likely to have 
a greater impact on investors than other actions; 
Page 216 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
FOS 202X/XX 
(c) 
the knock-on effects of a suspension or removal of sufficiently 
related derivatives, indices or benchmarks for which the removed 
or suspended instrument serves as an underlying or constituent; 
(d) 
the effects of a suspension on the interests of market end users 
who are not financial counterparties, such as entities trading in 
financial instruments to hedge commercial risks. 
(3) 
A firm must also take into account the factors set out in MAR 
5A.9.2R(2) when deciding not to suspend or remove a financial 
instrument on the basis of circumstances other than those specified in 
MAR 5A.9.2R(1). 
… 
Sch 5 
Rights of action for damages 
… 
Sch 5.2 
G 
Chapter/ 
Appendix 
Section/ 
Annex 
Paragraph 
For Private 
Person? 
Removed 
For other 
person? 
… 
MAR 4 (all 
rules) 
Yes 
Yes MAR 
3.1.5R 
No 
MAR 5 (all 
rules) 
Yes 
Yes 
No 
MAR 5A (all 
rules) 
Yes 
Yes 
No 
Page 217 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
Annex I 
Amendments to the Supervision manual (SUP) 
In this Annex, underlining indicates new text and striking through indicates deleted text. 
6 
Applications to vary and cancel Part 4 permission and to impose, vary or 
cancel requirements 
… 
6.4 
Applications for cancellation of permission 
… 
When will the relevant regulator grant an application for cancellation of 
permission? 
6.4.22 
G 
In deciding whether to cancel a firm’s Part 4A permission, the relevant 
regulator will take into account all relevant factors in relation to business 
carried on under that permission, including whether: 
… 
(3) the firm has ceased to hold or control custody assets in accordance 
with instructions received from clients and COBS 6.1.7R or article 
49 of the MiFID Org Regulation (see COBS 6.1ZA.9EU) COBS 
6.1ZA.9R (Information concerning safeguarding of designated 
investments belonging to clients and client money); 
… 
… 
6 Annex 4 Additional guidance for a firm winding down (running off) its business 
… 
6 Annex 
G 
4.2A 
Page 218 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
FCA 202X/XX 
1 
A firm must comply with CASS 5.5.80 R and CASS 7.11.34R (Client 
money: discharge of fiduciary duty) and CASS 7.11.50 R (Allocated 
but unclaimed client money) if it is ceasing to hold client money. 
A firm must also cease to hold or control custody assets in 
accordance with instructions received from clients and COBS 
6.1.7R or article 49 of the MiFID Org Regulation (see COBS 
6.1ZA.9EU) COBS 6.1ZA.9R (Information concerning safeguarding 
of designated investments belonging to clients and client money). 
These rules apply to both repayment and transfer to a third party. 
… 
… 
10C 
FCA senior managers regime for approved persons in SMCR firms 
… 
10C.6 
FCA required functions 
Compliance oversight function (SMF16) 
10C.6.1 
R 
The compliance oversight function is the function of acting in the capacity 
of a person who is allocated the function in: 
… 
(2) 
article 22(3) of the MiFID Org Regulation SYSC 6.1.4-AAR; 
(3) 
article 22(3) of the MiFID Org Regulation SYSC 6.1.4-AAR (as 
applied in accordance with SYSC 1 Annex 1 2.8AR, SYSC 1 Annex 
1 3.2AR, SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2BR, SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2CR 
and SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.3R); 
… 
… 
Page 219 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
Annex J 
Amendments to the Decision Procedure and Penalties manual (DEPP) 
In this Annex, underlining indicates new text and striking through indicates deleted text. 
6 
Penalties 
… 
6.2 
Deciding whether to take action 
… 
Action against individuals under section 66 of the Act 
… 
6.2.5 
G 
In some cases it may not be appropriate to take disciplinary measures against 
a firm for the actions of an individual (an example might be where the firm can 
show that it took all reasonable steps to prevent the breach). In other cases, it 
may be appropriate for the FCA to take action against both the firm and the 
individual. For example, a firm may have breached the rule requiring it to take 
reasonable care to establish and maintain such systems and controls as are 
appropriate to its business (SYSC 3.1.1R or SYSC 4.1.10R or article 21(5) of 
the MiFID Org Regulation SYSC 4.1.1-AR(5) and SYSC 5.1.14R (as applied in 
accordance with SYSC 1 Annex 1 2.8AR, SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2-AR, SYSC 1 
Annex 1 3.2-BR, SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2CR and SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.3R), and an 
individual may have taken advantage of those deficiencies to front run orders or 
misappropriate assets. 
… 
Page 220 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
Annex K 
Amendments to the Dispute Resolution: Complaints sourcebook (DISP) 
In this Annex, underlining indicates new text and striking through indicates deleted text. 
1 
Treating complaints fairly 
… 
1.1A 
Complaints handling requirements for MiFID complaints 
… 
Application: Who? What? 
… 
1.1A.2 
R 
For the MiFID complaints of a third country investment firm, the provisions 
marked “UK” shall apply as rules. [deleted] 
1.1A.3 
G 
A MiFID complaint is, amongst other things, a complaint to which article 26 
of the MiFID Org Regulation applies, being a complaint about: 
… 
[Note: see article 1(1), 1(3) and 1(4) of MiFID, and article 1 of the MiFID 
Org Regulation] 
… 
1.1A.6 
R 
(1) 
Only the provisions in this section marked “UK” and DISP 1.1A.39R 
(a) to (l) below apply to a MiFID complaint received from a retail 
client, professional client or an eligible counterparty that is not an 
eligible complainant.: 
(a) 
1.1A.10R; 
(b) 
1.1A.12R; 
(c) 
1.1A.13R; 
(d) 
1.1A.16R; 
Page 221 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
(e) 
1.1A.17R; 
(f) 
1.1A.18R; 
(g) 
1.1A.24R; 
(h) 
1.1A.25R; 
(i) 
1.1A.29R; 
(j) 
1.1A.30R; 
(k) 
1.1A.37R; and 
(l) 
1.1A.38R 
… 
Application: Where? 
1.1A.7 
R 
… 
Table: Application of DISP 1.1A to the MiFID business of firms in the UK, 
and the equivalent business of third country investment firms 
(1) 
Provision 
(2) Provision applies to 
the MiFID business of a 
firm carried on from an 
establishment in the 
UK? 
(3) Provision applies to the 
equivalent third country 
business of a third country 
investment firm where the 
complaint is received from a 
retail client or an elective 
professional client? 
1.1A.10UK 
1.1A.10R 
Yes 
Yes 
… 
1.1A.12UK 
1.1A.12R 
Yes 
Yes 
1.1A.13UK 
1.1A.13R 
Yes 
Yes 
… 
1.1A.16UK Yes 
Yes 
Page 222 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
1.1A.16R 
1.1A.17UK 
1.1A.17R 
Yes 
Yes 
1.1A.18UK 
1.1A.18R 
Yes 
Yes 
… 
1.1A.24UK 
1.1A.24R 
Yes 
Yes 
1.1A.25UK 
1.1A.25R 
Yes 
Yes 
… 
1.1A.29UK 
1.1A.29R 
Yes 
Yes 
1.1A.30UK 
1.1A.30R 
Yes 
Yes 
… 
1.1A.37UK 
1.1A.37R 
Yes 
Yes 
1.1A.38UK 
1.1A.38R 
Yes 
Yes 
… 
Interpretation of this section 
1.1A.8 
G 
This section contains a number of provisions marked with the status letters 
“UK”, which have been selectively reproduced from the MiFID Org 
Regulation. [deleted] 
1.1A.9 
G 
References in column (1) to a word or phrase used in those provisions 
marked “UK” have the meaning indicated in column (2) of the table below: 
(1) 
(2) 
Page 223 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
“complaint” 
MiFID complaint 
“investment firm” and 
“firm” 
MiFID investment firm 
[Note: for the definition of “client” see recital (103) and article 4(1)(9) of 
MiFID] [deleted] 
Consumer awareness 
1.1A.10 
UK 
Investment firms shall MiFID investment firms must publish the details of the 
R 
process to be followed when handling a complaint MiFID complaint. Such 
details shall must include information about the complaints management 
policy and the contact details of the complaints management function. This 
information shall must be provided to clients or potential clients, on request, 
or when acknowledging a complaint MiFID complaint. 
[Note: article 26(2) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
Complaints handling 
1.1A.12 
UK 
Investment firms shall MiFID investment firms must establish, implement 
R 
and maintain effective and transparent complaints management policies and 
procedures for the prompt handling of MiFID clients’ or potential clients’ 
complaints. 
[Note: first paragraph, article 26(1) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
1.1A.13 
UK 
The complaints management policy shall must provide clear, accurate and 
R 
up-to-date information about the complaints-handling process. This policy 
shall must be endorsed by the firm’s MiFID investment firm’s management 
body. 
[Note: second paragraph, article 26(1) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
1.1A.16 
UK 
Investment firms shall MiFID investment firms must enable clients and 
R 
potential clients to submit complaints MiFID complaints free of charge. 
[Note: article 26(2) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
1.1A.17 
UK 
Investment firms shall MiFID investment firms must establish a complaints 
R 
management function responsible for the investigation of complaints MiFID 
complaints. This function may be carried out by the compliance function. 
[Note: article 26(3) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
Page 224 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
1.1A.18 
UK 
Investment firms’ MiFID investment firms’ compliance function shall must 
R 
analyse complaints MiFID complaints and complaints-handling data to 
ensure that they identify and address any risks or issues. 
[Note: article 26(7) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
1.1A.19 
G 
MiFID complaints should be handled effectively and in an independent 
manner. 
[Note: recital (38) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
Complaints resolved by close of the third business day 
1.1A.23 
R 
If a MiFID investment firm resolves a MiFID complaint by close of business 
on the third business day following the day day on which it is received, it 
may choose to comply with DISP 1.1A.24UK DISP 1.1A.24R to DISP 
1.1A.27G rather than with DISP 1.1A.28R to DISP 1.1A.34G. 
1.1A.24 
UK 
When handling a complaint MiFID complaint, investment firms shall MiFID 
R 
investment firms must communicate with clients or potential clients clearly, 
in plain language that is easy to understand and shall must reply to the 
complaint MiFID complaint without undue delay. 
[Note: article 26(4) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
1.1A.25 
UK 
Investment firms shall MiFID investment firms must communicate the firm’s 
R 
their position on the complaint MiFID complaint to clients or potential clients 
and inform the clients or potential clients about their options, including that 
they may be able to refer the complaint to an alternative dispute resolution 
entity, as defined in regulation 4 of the ADR Regulations, or that the client 
may be able to take civil action. 
[Note: article 26(5) of the MiFID Org Regulation. See the ADR Directive.] 
1.1A.26 
R 
The explanation given by MiFID investment firms to clients or potential 
clients in accordance with DISP 1.1A.25UK DISP 1.1A.25R must also: 
… 
1.1A.27 
G 
The information regarding the Financial Ombudsman Service required to be 
provided in a communication sent under DISP 1.1A.25UK DISP 1.1A.25R 
and referred to in DISP 1.1A.26R should be set out clearly, comprehensibly, 
in an easily accessible way and prominently within the text of those 
responses. 
[Note: article 13 of the ADR Directive] 
Complaints time limits 
Page 225 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
… 
1.1A.29 
UK 
R 
When handling a complaint MiFID complaint, investment firms shall MiFID 
investment firms must communicate with clients or potential clients clearly, 
in plain language that is easy to understand and shall must reply to the 
complaint without undue delay. 
[Note: article 26(4) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
1.1A.30 
UK 
Investment firms shall MiFID investment firms must communicate the firm’s 
R 
their position on the complaint MiFID complaint to clients or potential clients 
and inform the clients or potential clients about their options, including that 
they may be able to refer the complaint to an alternative dispute resolution 
entity, as defined in regulation 4 of the ADR Regulations, or that the client 
may be able to take civil action. 
[Note: article 26(5) of the MiFID Org Regulation. See the ADR Directive.] 
1.1A.31 
R 
The explanation given by MiFID investment firms to clients or potential 
clients in accordance with DISP 1.1A.30UK DISP 1.1A.30R must also: 
… 
1.1A.32 
G 
The information regarding the Financial Ombudsman Service required to be 
provided in a final response sent under DISP 1.1A.30UK DISP 1.1A.30R and 
referred to in DISP 1.1A.31R should be set out clearly, comprehensibly, in an 
easily accessible way and prominently within the text of those responses. 
[Note: article 13 of the ADR Directive] 
… 
Complaints records 
1.1A.37 
UK 
Investment firms shall MiFID investment firms must keep a record of the 
R 
complaints received and the measures taken for their resolution. 
[Note: article 26(1) of the MiFID Org Regulation; see also article 72 of the 
MiFID Org Regulation regarding the retention of records] 
Complaints reporting 
1.1A.38 
UK 
Investment firms shall MiFID investment firms must provide information on 
complaints and complaints-handling to the relevant competent authorities 
R 
and, where applicable under national law, to an alternative dispute resolution 
(ADR) entity. 
[Note: article 26(6) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
… 
Page 226 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
Complaints data publication 
… 
1.1A.41 
G 
The effect of the complaints data publication rules and DISP 1.1A.37UK 
DISP 1.1A.37R is that, for the purposes of complying with those rules, a 
firm’s complaints data summary should include relevant data about any 
MiFID complaints received by the firm. 
… 
1 Annex 
Application of DISP 1 to type of respondent / complaint 
2G 
The table below summarises the application of DISP 1. Where the table indicates 
that a particular section may apply, its application in relation to any particular 
activity or complaint is dependent on the detailed application provisions set out in 
DISP 1. 
Page 227 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
Type of 
DISP 1.1A 
DISP 1.2 
DISP 1.3 
DISP 1.4 - 1.8 
DISP 1.9 
DISP 1.10 
DISP 1.10A 
DISP 1.10B 
respondent/ 
Requirements 
Consumer 
Complaints 
Complaints 
Complaints 
Complaints 
Complaints 
Complaints 
complaint 
for MiFID 
awareness 
handling 
resolution 
record rule 
reporting 
data 
reporting 
investment 
rules 
rules 
rules etc. 
rules 
publication 
directions 
firms 
rules 
… 
firm in relation Applies 
Does not 
Does not 
DISP 
Does not apply Applies as set 
Applies as set 
Does not apply 
to MiFID 
for retail 
apply 
apply 
1.7 applies as 
(but see DISP 
out in DISP 
out in DISP 
complaints 
clients and 
set out in DISP 1.1A.37UK 
1.1A 
1.1A 
concerning 
professional 
1.1A 
DISP 
MiFID 
clients, and 
1.1A.37R 
business carrie (where 
d on from an 
relevant) eligi 
establishment 
ble 
in the UK (or 
counterparties 
in an EEA 
State, in the 
(see also DISP 
case of a TP 
1.1A.6R) 
firm with 
respect to 
services 
provided into 
the United 
Kingdom) 
… 
Page 228 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
equivalent 
business of a 
third country 
investment 
firm in relation 
to MiFID 
complaints 
Applies as set 
out in DISP 
1.1A 
Does not 
apply 
Does not 
apply 
Applies as set 
out in DISP 
1.1A 
Does not apply 
(but see DISP 
1.1A.37EU 
DISP 
1.1A.37R) 
Applies as set 
out in DISP 
1.1A’ 
Applies as set 
out in DISP 
1.1A 
Does not apply 
… 
Page 229 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
2 
Jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service 
… 
2.3 
To which activities does the Compulsory Jurisdiction apply? 
Activities by firms 
… 
2.3.1A 
R 
… 
[Note: see article 1(1), 1(3) and 1(4) and article 75 of MiFID, and articles 1 
and 26(5) of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
2.3.1B 
G 
For the purposes of DISP 2.3.1AR, the Ombudsman can consider a complaint 
about an act carried out by a MiFID investment firm that is preparatory to the 
provision of an investment service or ancillary service which is an integral 
part of such a service. This includes, for example, generic advice given by a 
MiFID investment firm to a client prior to, or in the course of, the provision 
of investment advice or another investment service or ancillary service. 
[Note: recitals 15 and 16 of the MiFID Org Regulation] 
2.3.1C 
G 
For guidance regarding the type of advice that is considered investment advice 
for the purposes of MiFID, see PERG 13.3, Q21. 
… 
Sch 1 
Record keeping requirements 
… 
Sch 1.2 
G 
Handbook 
reference 
Subject of 
record 
Contents of 
record 
When record 
must be made 
Retention 
period 
DISP 
1.1A.37U 
K 
DISP 
1.1A.37R 
MiFID 
complaints 
subject to 
DISP 1.1A. 
Each MiFID 
complaint 
received and 
the complaint 
handling 
measures 
taken to 
address the 
MiFID 
complaint 
Not specified 
[Note: see 
article 26(1), 
article 72, and 
Annex 1 of 
the MiFID 
Org 
Regulation] 
Not specified 
[Note: see 
article 72 of the 
MiFID Org 
Regulation] 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
and for its 
resolution 
[Note: see 
article 26(1), 
article 72, 
and Annex 1 
of the MiFID 
Org 
Regulation] 
… 
Page 231 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
Annex L 
Amendments to the Professional Firms sourcebook (PROF) 
In this Annex, underlining indicated new text and striking through indicates deleted text. 
2 
Status of exempt professional firm 
2.1 
Designated professional bodies and exempt regulated activities 
… 
Exempt regulated activities 
… 
2.1.16 
G 
(1) 
An exempt professional firm providing a service which is an 
investment service is required to do so in accordance with article 4 of 
the MiFID Org Regulation paragraph 6 of Part 2 of Schedule 3 to the 
Regulated Activities Order. 
(2) 
In the FCA’s view, PROF 2.1.14G is also relevant for these purposes 
as well as the approach to disclosure described in PROF 4.1.4G, 
noting that article 4(c) of the MiFID Org Regulation paragraph 6(c) 
of Part 2 of Schedule 3 to the Regulated Activities Order imposes a 
disclosure obligation when an exempt professional firm markets or 
otherwise promotes its ability to provide investment services. 
… 
Page 232 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
Annex M 
Amendments to the Recognised Investment Exchanges sourcebook (REC) 
In this Annex, underlining indicates new text and striking through indicates deleted text. 
2 
Recognition requirements 
… 
2.6 
General safeguards for investors, suspension and removal of financial 
instruments from trading and order execution on regulated markets 
… 
2.6.6 
UK 
… 
2.6.6A 
R 
(1) 
For the purpose of paragraph 7E of the Schedule to the Recognition 
Requirements Regulations, a suspension or a removal from trading 
of a financial instrument will be likely to cause significant damage 
to investors’ interests or the orderly functioning of the market in at 
least the following circumstances: 
(a) 
where it would create a systemic risk undermining financial 
stability, such as where the need exists to unwind a dominant 
market position, or where settlement obligations would not be 
met in a significant volume; 
(b) 
where the continuation of trading on the market is necessary 
to perform critical post-trade risk management functions when 
there is a need for the liquidation of financial instruments due 
to the default of a clearing member under the default 
procedures of a CCP and a CCP would be exposed to 
unacceptable risks as a result of an inability to calculate 
margin requirements; 
(c) 
where the financial viability of the issuer would be threatened, 
such as where it is involved in a corporate transaction or 
capital raising. 
(2) 
For the purposes of determining whether a suspension or a removal 
is likely to cause significant damage to the investor’s interest or the 
orderly functioning of the markets in any particular case, a UK RIE 
must consider all relevant factors, including: 
(a) 
the relevance of the market in terms of liquidity where the 
consequences of the actions are likely to be more significant 
where those markets are more relevant in terms of liquidity 
than in other markets; 
Page 233 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
(b) 
the nature of the envisaged action where actions with a 
sustained or lasting impact on the ability of investors to trade 
a financial instrument on trading venues, such as removals, 
are likely to have a greater impact on investors than other 
actions; 
(c) 
the knock-on effects of a suspension or removal of sufficiently 
related derivatives, indices or benchmarks for which the 
removed or suspended instrument serves as an underlying or 
constituent; 
(d) 
the effects of a suspension on the interests of market end users 
who are not financial counterparties, such as entities trading in 
financial instruments to hedge commercial risks. 
(3) 
A UK RIE must take into consideration the factors set out in (2) 
where it decides not to suspend or remove a financial instrument on 
the basis of circumstances other than those listed in (1). 
… 
2.6.10 
UK 
[Note: articles 4 and 5 of MiFIR, MiFID RTS 1 and MiFID RTS 3 on the 
double volume cap mechanism and the provision of information for the 
purposes of transparency and other calculations] [deleted] 
Article 18 of the MiFID Regulation 
Waivers based on market model and type of order or transaction 
(1) 
Waivers in accordance with Article 29(2) and 44(2) of [MiFID] 
[(see REC 2.6.3 UK)] may be granted by the [FCA] for systems 
operated by an MTF or a regulated market, if those systems satisfy 
one of the following criteria: 
(a) 
they must be based on a trading methodology by which the 
price is determined in accordance with a reference price 
generated by another system, where that reference price is 
widely published and is regarded generally by market 
participants as a reliable reference price; 
(b) 
they formalise negotiated transactions [(see REC 2.6.11 EU)], 
each of which meets one of the following criteria: 
(i) 
it is made at or within the current volume weighted 
spread reflected on the order book or the quotes of the 
market makers of the regulated market or MTF operating 
that system or, where the share is not traded continuously, 
within a percentage of a suitable reference price, being a 
Page 234 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
percentage and a reference price set in advance by the 
system operator; 
(ii) 
it is subject to conditions other than the current market 
price of the share [see REC 2.6.12 EU)] 
For the purposes of point (b), the other conditions specified in the 
rules of the regulated market or MTF for a transaction of this kind 
must also have been fulfilled. 
In the case of systems having functionality other than as described in 
points (a) or (b), the waiver shall not apply to that other functionality. 
(2) 
Waivers in accordance with Articles 29(2) and 44(2) of [MiFID] 
[(see REC 2.6.3 UK)], based on the type of orders may be granted 
only in relation to orders held in an order management facility 
maintained by the regulated market or the MTF pending their being 
disclosed to the market. 
2.6.11 
UK 
[Note: article 5 of MiFIR, and MiFID RTS 3] [deleted] 
Article 19 of the MiFID Regulation 
References to negotiated transaction 
For the purpose of Article 18(1)(b) [(see REC 2.6.10 EU)] a negotiated 
transaction shall mean a transaction involving members or participants of 
a regulated market or an MTF which is negotiated privately but executed 
within the regulated market or MTF and where that member or participant 
in doing so undertakes one of the following tasks: 
(a) 
dealing on own account with another member or participant who 
acts for the account of a client; 
(b) 
dealing with another member or participant, where both are 
executing orders on own account; 
(c) 
acting for the account of both the buyer and seller; 
(d) 
acting for the account of the buyer, where another member or 
participant acts for the account of the seller; 
(e) 
trading for own account against a client order. 
… 
2.6.15 
UK 
[Note: article 6 of MiFIR now covers post-trade transparency requirements 
for trading venues in respect of shares, depositary receipts, ETFs, 
Page 235 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
certificates and other similar financial instruments and article 10 of MiFIR 
imposes similar requirements in respect of bonds, structured finance 
products, emission allowances and derivatives] [deleted] 
Article 27(1) of the MiFID Regulation 
Post-trade transparency obligation 
(1) 
... regulated markets, and ... market operators operating 
an MTF shall, with regard to transactions in respect of shares 
admitted to trading on regulated markets concluded ... within their 
systems, make public the following details: 
(a) 
the details specified in points 2, 3, 6, 16, 17, 18 and 21 of 
Table 1 of Annex I [(see REC 2.6.16 EU)] 
(b) 
an indication that the exchange of shares is determined by 
factors other than the current market valuation of the share, 
where applicable [(see REC 2.6.17 EU)]; 
(c) 
an indication that the trade was a negotiated trade, where 
applicable; 
(d) 
any amendments to previously disclosed information, where 
applicable. 
Those details shall be made public either by reference to 
each transaction or in a form aggregating the volume and price of 
all transactions in the same share taking place at the same price at 
the same time. 
2.6.16 
UK 
[Note: MiFID RTS 1] [deleted] 
Points 2, 3 6, 16, 17, 18 and 21 of Table 1 of Annex I of the MiFID 
Regulation 
2. 
Trading Day 
The trading day on which the transaction was 
executed. 
3. 
Trading time 
The time at which the transaction was executed, 
reported in the local time of the competent authority 
to which the transaction will be reported, and the 
basis in which the transaction is reported expressed 
as Co-ordinated Universal Time (UTC) +/- hours. 
6. 
Instrument 
Identification 
This shall consist in: 
Page 236 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
- a unique code to be decided by the competent 
authority (if any) to which the report is made 
identifying the [share] which is the subject of 
the transaction; 
- if the [share] in question does not have a unique 
identification code, the report must include the name 
of the [share] ... 
16. 
Unit Price 
The price per [share] excluding commission and 
(where relevant) accrued interest. ... 
17. 
Price 
Notation 
The currency in which the price is expressed … 
18. 
Quantity 
The number of units of the [shares]. 
21. 
Venue 
identification 
Identification of the venue where the transaction was 
executed. That identification shall consist ... [of 
the regulated market or MTF's] ... unique harmonised 
identification code; 
… 
… 
2.16A 
Operation of a multilateral trading facility (MTF) or an organised trading 
facility (OTF) 
… 
2.16A.1 
R 
For the purposes of complying with the requirement set out in paragraph 9E 
D 
of the Schedule to the Recognition Requirement Regulations (SME Growth 
Markets), the The rules set out by the FCA in MAR 5.10 (Operation of an 
SME growth market) apply to a UK RIE operating a multilateral trading 
facility as an SME growth market, as though it was an a MiFID investment 
firm. 
… 
… 
3 
Notification rules for UK recognised bodies 
… 
3.25 
Significant breaches of rules and disorderly trading conditions 
3.25.1 
R 
… 
Page 237 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
3.25.2 
R 
When assessing whether the requirement to inform the FCA immediately of 
significant infringements of the rules of its trading venue or disorderly 
trading conditions or system disruptions in relation to a financial 
instrument applies, a UK RIE must consider the signals listed in MAR 1 
Annex 3R 1. 
3.25.3 
R 
(1) 
When assessing whether the requirement to immediately inform the 
FCA of conduct that may indicate behaviour that is prohibited under 
the Market Abuse Regulation applies, a UK RIE must consider the 
signals listed in MAR 1 Annex 3R 2. 
(2) 
A UK RIE operating one or several trading venues where a financial 
instrument and/or related financial instrument are traded must apply 
a proportionate approach and exercise judgement on the signals 
triggered, including any relevant signals not specifically included in 
MAR 1 Annex 3R 2, before informing the FCA, taking into account 
the following: 
(a) 
the deviations from the usual trading pattern of the financial 
instruments admitted to trading or traded on its trading 
venue; and 
(b) 
the information available or accessible to the UK RIE, 
whether that be internally as part of the operations of the 
trading venue or publicly available. 
(3) 
For the purposes of (2) ‘related financial instrument’ means any 
financial instrument the price of which is closely affected by price 
movements in another financial instrument which is the subject of 
investment research, and includes a derivative on that other 
financial instrument. 
(4) 
(a) 
A UK RIE operating one or several trading venues must also 
take into account front running behaviours, which consist in 
a market member or participant trading, for its own account, 
ahead of its client. 
(b) 
For the purposes of (a) a UK RIE must use the order book 
data required to be recorded by the trading venue pursuant to 
Article 25 of MiFIR (Obligation to maintain records) – in 
particular, those relating to the way the member or 
participant conducts its trading activity. 
3.25.4 
G 
(1) 
For the purposes of the signals referred to in MAR 1 Annex 3 
references to ‘order to trade’ should encompass all types of orders, 
including initial orders, modifications, updates and cancellations of 
orders, irrespective of whether or not they have been executed and 
irrespective of the means used to access the trading venue. 
(2) 
The list of signals of insider dealing and market manipulation is 
neither exhaustive nor determinative of market abuse or attempts of 
Page 238 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
market abuse, as each of the signals may not necessarily constitute 
market abuse or attempts of market abuse per se. Transactions or 
orders to trade meeting one or more signals may be conducted for 
legitimate reasons or in compliance with the rules of the trading 
venue. 
… 
Sch 5 
Rights of action for damages 
Sch 5.1 
G 
There are no rights of action under section 150 section 138D of the Act in 
respect of any contravention by a recognised body of any rule made under 
the Act. 
Page 239 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
Annex N 
Amendments to the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook (DTR) 
In this Annex, underlining indicates new text and striking through indicates deleted text. 
5 
Vote Holder and Issuer Notification Rules 
… 
5.4 
Aggregation of managed holdings 
… 
5.4.2 
R 
(1) 
The parent undertaking of an investment firm authorised by the FCA 
or the PRA under the United Kingdom provisions which implemented 
MiFID shall not be required to aggregate its holdings with the holdings 
which such investment firm manages on a client-by-client basis within 
the meaning of Article 2(7) of the MiFID Org Regulation when 
undertaking portfolio management, provided that: 
… 
… 
Page 240 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
FCA 202X/XX 
Annex O 
Amendments to the MiFID 2 Onshoring Guide (M2G) 
In this Annex, underlining indicates new text and striking through indicates deleted text. 
2 
Onshoring of senior management arrangements and systems and controls 
obligations 
2.1 
Background 
… 
2.1.4 
G 
The Commission Delegated Regulation 2017/565 of 25 April 2016 ), as 
onshored by the Exit Regulations, contains detailed organisational requirements 
for those firms to which it applies, including authorised MiFID investment firms 
and credit institutions. [deleted] 
2.3 
Main types of senior management and organisational requirements in MiFID II 
… 
2.3.2 
G 
The general organisational requirements in article 16 are added to by detailed 
provisions in the MiFID Org Regulation SYSC including the following areas: 
… 
2.4 
MiFID II onshoring and SYSC 
2.4.1 
G 
The combination of senior management and systems and controls requirements 
for firms in a directive and regulation means that FCA rules are used to 
onshore the provisions in the directive. As such, the approach to 
onshoring MiFID II retains the familiar approach of the common platform and 
the following: 
… 
• 
a rule which has the effect, amongst other things, of extending the 
application of certain parts of the MiFID Org Regulation to all of a UK 
MiFID investment firm’s designated investment business, MiFID or 
otherwise (SYSC 1 Annex 1 2.8AR) (in the Handbook, the definition of 
‘MiFID investment firm’ captures any UK firm to which MiFID would 
apply if the United Kingdom were a Member State); 
• 
a rule which extends the application of the MiFID Org Regulation in 
relation to general organisational requirements, compliance, risk 
management, internal audit, responsibility of senior management, 
remuneration policies and practices and outsourcing to all of a MiFID 
optional exemption firm’s designated investment business, by way of 
rule or guidance depending on the individual provision (SYSC 1 Annex 
1 3.2CR discussed further in M2G 2.5); 
Page 241 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
• 
signposting references in the application provisions to individual SYSC 
chapters to identify the relevant articles of the MiFID Org Regulation 
which supplement the rules implementing the MiFID requirements. 
These are also listed in the new Table C in SYSC 1 Annex 1; 
… 
… 
2.5 
Navigating SYSC 
… 
2.5.2 
G 
SYSC 1.1A summarises the application of the sourcebook to different types of 
firms. UK MiFID investment firms and MiFID optional exemption firms fall 
into the category of ‘every other firm’ in SYSC 1.1A and so the applicable 
chapters are 4 to 12, 18, 19A, 19D and 21. The detailed application of the 
provisions in chapters 4-10 is cut back in SYSC 1 Annex 1 and it is this annex 
which provides the starting point for understanding and determining the 
application of the common platform requirements to your business. More 
specifically, SYSC 1 Annex 1 Part 3.1G provides a roadmap for individual 
categories of firms, including UK MiFID investment firms and MiFID optional 
exemption firms, in explaining how the common platform requirements and the 
MiFID Org Regulation apply to them. These include requirements that were 
previously contained in the MiFID Org Regulation and restated to sit within 
FCA rules. 
2.6 
UK MiFID investment firms 
2.6.1 
G 
In the case of UK MiFID investment firms, these are common platform firms for 
the purposes of the Handbook so are subject to the following MiFID II related 
obligations: 
… 
• 
The MiFID Org Regulation. 
Certain provisions of the MiFID Org Regulation are also adapted to 
apply to the firm’s non-MiFID business in accordance with SYSC 1 
Annex 1.2.8R and SYSC 1 Annex 1.2.8AR. The effect of SYSC 1 Annex 
1.2.8AR is to adapt the MiFID Org Regulation so that a small number of 
its terms are to be read as if they were broader corresponding Handbook 
terms. For example, references in the MiFID Org Regulation to 
‘investment service’ and ‘investment services and activities’ are to be 
read as ‘designated investment business’. This helps maintain a common 
single standard of organisational requirements applying to all of a UK 
MiFID investment firm’s business. 
… 
2.7 
MiFID optional exemption firms 
Page 242 of 243 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCA 202X/XX 
2.7.1 
G 
MiFID optional exemption firms are subject to the following MiFID II related 
obligations: 
… 
• 
Articles 21 to 25, 27, 30 to 35 and 72 of the MiFID Org Regulation are 
applied to the business of a MiFID optional exemption firm in 
accordance with SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2CR. The effect of SYSC 1 Annex 1 
3.2CR is to apply these provisions of the MiFID Org Regulation: 
(i) as either rules or guidance in accordance with SYSC 1 Annex 1 Part 3 
Table C; and 
(ii) to the firm’s regulated activities generally and other activities 
identified in SYSC 1 Annex 1.2.8R. 
The effect of SYSC 1 Annex 1 3.2CR is to also to adapt articles 21 to 25, 
27, 30 to 35 and 72 of the MiFID Org Regulation so that a small number 
of terms in the regulation are to be read as if they were broader 
corresponding Handbook terms, as set out in SYSC 1 Annex 1.2.8AR. 
… 
… 
2 Annex 1 Overview 
G 
The diagrams in this Annex provide an overview of organisational requirements 
deriving from MiFID II and the location of their implementation, as well as the 
MiFID Org Regulation including its extension to non-MiFID II business in the 
case of UK MiFID investment firms and MiFID optional exemption firms. 
The diagram focuses on the position of UK MiFID investment firms (other than 
CPMI and authorised professional firms) and MiFID optional exemption firms. 
MiFID II Organisational requirements for firms 
[Editors’s note: The diagram “MiFID II Organisational requirements for firms” 
remains the same.] 
MiFID Org Regulation 
[Editors’s note: The diagram “MiFID Org Regulation” is deleted.] 
Page 243 of 243 



 
Pub ref: 1-008218 
© Financial Conduct Authority 2024 
12 Endeavour Square London E20 1JN 
Telephone: +44 (0)20 7066 1000 
Website: www.fca.org.uk 
All rights reserved 



